# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2022-10-6

## Hanging Protocol Support for Priors

Salim asked about the ability of Hanging protocols to match prior studies.

So, currently there is no prior matching since we use active display sets for the hanging protocol, and we don't have a way to match prior studies.
In the meantime, one can write a custom init for the mode, to perform matching on the prior studies displaysets as well.
Follow-up by Celian and Salim on Slack

## Loading of SR created in OHIF v1, v2

Bill asked about the loading of SR created in OHIF v1, v2, does it load in OHIF v3?

They are supposed to get displayed and be able to hydrate the SR. If not, there has been a bug introduced a couple of months ago.

## Volume Viewport Annotations

Bill asked, should viewport show an annotation that has been drawn on a non-axis slice? or some part of it?

We tried 3D Slicer, it shows the length tool (at least the start and beginning), but not the middle part. 3D Slicer annotations
are based on VTK widgets so they are in 3D space, as opposed to Cornerstone3D which are not (although one can draw an annotation in any plane,
I mean, for rendering). I'm not sure if it makes sense to calculate the projection of each annotation on each slice. I think
VTK widgets are GPU accelerated, so it is not a problem for them. I think it is a good idea to have a discussion about this.

## Building Image Viewer, OHIF or Cornerstone

Luke, asked about building an image viewer. Should he use OHIF or Cornerstone?

OHIF provides a lot of out of the box functionality, and is a good starting point for such things as loading, measurements, panels, etc.
Cornerstone is a library that provides the rendering and interaction, and is a good starting point, but nothing more. You need to
create your own UI, and implement all the functionality yourself. OHIF is a good starting point.

## Static Files Hosting Docs

You can use Static WADO to serve your files, and you can use the OHIF Viewer to view them.

https://github.com/RadicalImaging/static-DICOMWeb

https://v3-docs.ohif.org/configuration/dataSources/static-files
