# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2022-11-03

How to render contours that are drawn with FreeROIHandTool in v2 (cstool-legacy) how to render it in V3.

A: you need to convert each planar contour to the annotation data model that freehandROI accepts in the
CS3D. Main point is that each contour point should be converted to the world coordinates.

---

How to force CPU rendering in OHIF v3 as a method to debug system dependant issues.

A: you can use cornerstone.setUseCPURendering(true)

---

wadors metadata provider does not provide the voi look up table but the waduri does

A: Yes, since wadouri has the entrie p10, we can pull that information from there., but most of the
time servers don't send the voi lut binary data, but send a bulkDataURI that points to the binary data.
There is right now a method to fetch that in OHIF which might makes sense to move down to the Cornerstone3D

(v3-stable branch): platform/core/src/utils/metadataProvider/fetchPaletteColorLookupTableData.js

---

In cs3d, scale is not similar to cs-legacy, in cs3d we use parallelScale for zoom.

A: Yes, the definition of parallel scale is the half of the distance that the canvas covers in the vertical direction in the
world coordinates. So you can calculate the scale that way, by calculating how much the image spans in the
vertical direction and then dividing that by the parallelScale to get the scale.

---

How can I get the imageData IJK when clicking on the canvas

A: You can use the canvas coordinates, and use `viewport.canvasToWorld` and then using the utility
function `imageToWorld` you can ge the image coordinates.

---

VTK Widget support in Cornerstone3D

A: We have on roadmap to add support for vtk actors, hardware picking etc. but not the full vtk widget manager
As an instance, for RTStruct, we want to use vtk.js actor for contours.
