# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2022-11-17

Segmentation view

Needs to reduce the number of web workers
Issue with displaying some studies as MPR, despite them being mprable
Segmentation can be used for running new AI models to detect findings/issues
Segmentation can be used for sub-selecting the available findings for manual reporting models
There are various models to generate segmentations such as structure/atlas based along with intensity of the area, quite hard to do generically
Segmentation can also be generated manually

Funding to connect OHIF to various back ends such as Monai
Don’t have funding yet for exporting of segmentations

Wen - PR feat: trigger annotation modified event on textbox moving by m00n620 · Pull Request #296 · cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D-beta (github.com)

Jason - cornerstone3D beta, trying to get a sample working for upgrading pacsbin

Bill - HealthLake - aws service - on behalf of Chris Hafey
Deduplicated metadata so that its smaller
HTJ2K images - take about ¼ of the time that JLS takes to decode

Any interest in doing a code walkthrough on OHIF? - basic checkout, build, what are the subsystems. Record it? SIIM presentation? Could be done over Zoom and then recorded.
Eg like CEPH:
https://m.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrBUGiINAakN87iSX3gXOXSU3EB8Y1JLd

Also any good DICOM presentations (SIIM has one)?

RSNA
Are people interested in meeting up at RSNA?
Bill (@ Radical Imaging booth), Doug,
OHIF is presenting a poster is 13243

DICOMweb working group is meeting:
WG-27 will hold a hybrid in-person & virtual meeting during RSNA this year. The meeting will take place on Monday, November 28th from 1:00-5:00pm US Central at McCormick Place in the South Building in Room S104A. We hope to see you there, or on the GotoMeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/649543085

Please let me know if you have any questions: sknazik@dicomstandard.org<mailto:sknazik@dicomstandard.org>
