# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2022-11-10

Out of memory issue in Safari & mobile PR
https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstoneWADOImageLoader/pull/480/files#diff-a3c5532acf392f88ed205576c65f5b48a9369f2e625ac6cf3440cb18699f5a6e

Apparently Safari has a problem with big images (larger than 1000 pixels) and it crashes in all mobile devices. This PR resizes the
image to 1000 pixels if it is larger than that.

A: Interesting to know Safari has a problem with big images. I wonder if this is the right approach, or at least should be
configurable via an option.

—-----------------—-----------------

Brain MRI image not working in CPU, only few pixels and image is distorted

A: will debug the image and see what is going on

—-----------------—-----------------

vtk.js offsetScreenRender regarding the displayArea feature, seems like the canvasToWorld returning back NaN when called early on.

A: maybe we call the canvasToWorld at the end of the resetCamera to make sure it has already invoked the reset camera event.
Other possibilities are to run the code after addActors.

—-----------------—-----------------

Cornerstone3D does not emit ANNOTATION_UPDATED on textBox manipulation

A: that is by design, maybe we can add a ANNOTATION_TEXT_BOX_UPDATED event, happy to review a PR

—-----------------—-----------------

Can you show textBox for PlanarFreehandROI

A: This is a very computationally expensive operation, we should not do it by default. We can add a flag to do it
on the mouseUp callback, happy to review a PR

—-----------------—-----------------

StackViewport rotation tool

A: You can use `viewport.setProperties({rotation: rotationAmount})`
