# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-08-31

## Q & A

### Q: Just wanted to know how things are going to support segmentations on stack viewports. Will there be big changes for segmentation structure? It would be great if you can share the draft PR so that I can get an idea.

A: Stack segmentation is tricky since there can be various arbitrary images in the stack and we need to make sure that the relevant segmentations are shown to the user for the current displayed image. There is a draft PR here [Draft PR Link](https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/pull/679).

---

### Q: How can I create a stripped down / simplified cornerstone UI? Could modes and extensions be explained with respect to this?

A: Support for mobile is on the roadmap, but not yet. If segmentation is needed, then you might need OHIF. Perhaps start with the longitudinal mode and strip it down to what you want/need. Use the segmentation hanging protocol. [View PR](https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3016/files).

---

### Q: Bug while viewing a multiframe MRI scan in OHIF, but rendering properly in Weasis and Horos viewer.

A: Appears fixed in the most recent code; some exceptions in the console.

---

### Q: When requesting HTJ2K subresolutions via imageId fsiz param, should the decode level be sent via a custom header or computed by the client?

A: Doing it with a header probably makes sense. X-decode-level. [Learn more](https://chafey.github.io/openjphjs/test/browser/index.html).

---

### Q: For running the hanging protocol, should we add a more complex prerequisite for running the hanging protocol instead of just counts of the series loaded. e.g., the MG most likely requires ALL series.

A: Probably should be similar to addCustomAttribute that we implement a "count".

---
