# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-10-05


## Q & A

Attendees: 15


### Q: I am trying to execute a block of code in the endcallback of an annotation tool like LengthTool. Is there a simple way to do this for multiple tools?

A: Listen to the ANNOTATION_COMPLETED event. You can use `eventTarget.addEventListener` from the @cornerstonejs/core package.

---

### Q: Is the volume rendering (specifically webGL context lost) problem in ios17 resolved?

A: Half_float seems to work for some reason, but seems like there are other reported issues 
from unity and threejs communities if you search google.


---

### Q: Are there any concerns with using Composite vs. Average_Intensity in getCornerstoneBlendMode for PET Images?

A: See [GitHub PR 2093](https://github.com/Kitware/vtk-js/pull/2093) for related discussion. But the proper 
way to handle this is to add a new blend mode that does linear opacity change. 

---

### Q: Are there any tools for controls of a volume for Window/Level, Opacity, Threshold?

A: Check out [OHIF Viewers PR 3664](https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3664) and [OHIF Viewers PR 3522](https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3522).

---

### Q: The Probe tool currently operates on the current CT Volume, how can it be used to show values for all fusion volumes?

A: Seems like our configuration is not set up to handle this. We need to add a new configuration option (volumeIds)
to handle calculating the statistics for all volumes.

---

### Q: Crosshairs tool with combo of volume and stack viewports. How to restore the camera for volume viewport?

A: You can store the previous camera and set it afterwards. 
See `extensions/cornerstone-dicom-seg/src/commandsModule.ts` and `extensions/cornerstone-dicom-seg/src/utils/hydrationUtils.ts`.

---

### Q: How can we enable half float (Int16) in OHIF/Cornerstone 3D examples?

A: In the OHIF configuration, set `use16BitDataType: true`. Also, refer to the `init.js` file in cornerstone for further settings.

---
