# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-10-26


## Q & A

Attendees: 15


## Q & A

### Q: Why is browser memory usage proportional to volume size in Cornerstone3D?

Why is it proportional to volume size?  A: Because the volume is held in the cache and holds every pixel, so size is 649 slices * 512 width * 512 height * 4 bytes per pixel (for float32)
GPU memory and CPU memory are both taken up with the data
Images are written to Volume Cache, not Image Cache, which is contiguous data.



---

### Q: Why does Stack Image Sync behave differently across priors and series within the same study?

A: stack image sync will sync by position (uses relative distance after user has lined up series of different studies) or by frame of reference UID (uses absolute position)


---

### Q: Issue with the new stable version 3.7.0 of OHIF; segmentations aren't placed correctly.

A: Please provide anonymized data and create a new OHIF issue to report this.


---

### Q: What strategy to use when the Rendering Engine fails or throws an error?

A: Probably an app bug. Submit a mini-app to demonstrate the issue or replicate it using standard CS3D examples. Consider using just 1 rendering engine and setting it up in a `setTimeout` to see if it's a race condition on loading.

---

### Q: Is summing up the loadTimeinMS of all image objects a good way to estimate total image loading time in a series?

A: No, because the sum might exceed the actual elapsed time due to parallel processing. Consider using `stackprefetch.ts` to log times.

---

### Q: Difference in size/zoom when switching between stack and volume in OHIF.

A: Stacks and volumes use different pan/zoom representations. They should default to the same values, but if not, please file a bug report.

---
