# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-07-13

---

## Q & A

### cornerstoneDICOMImageLoader.wadors.metaDataManager.get(‘generalSeriesModule’, imageId) is giving undefined metaData for some of the dicom files. I’m using the same file i.e. ‘createImageIdsAndCacheMetaData.js’ from the helper folder. Is there any particular reason of giving undefined. Because of this I’m unable to render the image in the viewport.

https://rawgit.com/cornerstonejs/dicomParser/master/examples/dumpWithDataDictionary/index.html

We might also not have the module you are requesting for the metadata

---

### Some DICOM images are not being rendered correctly on OHIF Viewer when we use Google Data Source, however it’s working fine if we use local data source(uploading the DCM file at /local) I think @cornerstonejs/dicom-image-loader is used for parsing DICOM files on local data source, and dicomweb-client is used to retrieve metadata on web data source(AWS, Google, …). This can be the reason for this issue? I want to figure out why some DICOM files are blurry on the viewer

Try it in Orthanc and dcm4chee

- Download the Orhtanc docker compose from here https://ohif-assets.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/orthanc/Archive.zip
- Run docker-compose up
- Upload to orthanc via http://localhost/app/explorer.html#upload
  - Or use the ohif ui
- APP_CONFIG=config/local_orthanc.js yarn dev
- See if it works

Also…
Check the google transfer syntax
Go to the orthanc data source configuration, set requestTransferSyntaxUID to the one seen from google.
Check/compare the images
Check that your are running an updated OHIF version with updated Image IO libraries.

---

### Is there an easy way to convert from number of pixels into area (mm^2)? For example, let’s say we have a mask/segmentation (array of true/false values) on the underlying viewport image and we want to calculate the mask area

count the number of pixels _ row pixelSpacing (mm) _ column pixelSpacing (mm)

---

### When using OHIF in combination with DCM4CHEE secured with keycloak, I am running into an error: “Uncaught (in promise) TypeError: user is null” in reference to this code:

const userManager = initUserManager(oidc, routerBasename);
const getAuthorizationHeader = () => {
const user = userAuthenticationService.getUser();
return {
Authorization: `Bearer ${user.access_token}`

Do you know how to correctly get the user and subsequently the token?

Answer:

A new PR for replacing the library can be find here https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3041
You might be able to just use the newer library

We can move the oidc stuff to an extension I guess

I’ve hit this same issue, you can add if (!user) { return; } for now, and the second time the function is called the user will be present. I think even with a new library you will have the same issue, it’s just a bug. - Erik
