# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-02-09

---

## Q & A

### Cannot set colormap for stack viewport via setColormap

A: The manual way of applying a colormap works, so please go ahead with implementation and creating of a PR.

---

### Brush tools in OHIF is missing

A: We understand that. It requires some development at our side to integrate the segmentations fully inside OHIF. Right now segmentations require volumeViewport, so upon click of the button we should switch the stack to volume viewport.

---

### Multiframe measurement drawing, has a bug for jumping measurements drawn not on the first slice. It requires two steps

A: That is a bug, and we will investigate

---

### isViewportPrescaled cause error on the first time, but not on the second time

A: race condition since the imagedata is not available when the series is loading and the annotation is being added.

---

### How is the structure of the wado static dicom loader laid out, what happens if the metadata is not deduplicated, or the bulkdata is not extracted.

A:

Three directories, 1) instances 2) deduplicated 3) studies

Studies -> standard dicom web directory, main thing different is path are file path. /studies -> returns /studies/index.json.gz. It also contains all dicom web queries: series level metadata files, bulkdata and pixelData and thumbnails (single file part image jpeg).

Deduplicated -> number of json files that are hash codes that end in json.gz. Hash code and timestamp in the file is used to detect changes.

It depends on the deduplication of the data to detect changes -> it won’t work

---

### Crosshairs synchronization

A: The crosshairs probably should fire a annotation_modified which can be used to handle synchronization between crosshairs

---

### DisplayArea changes on the stack viewport

A: The PR is almost ready, and we agreed on the surface API.
