# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-02-16

---

## Q & A

### How to switch to servers. (how to switch configurations specifically)

A: Look at the sample config/multiple.js configuration file. Working on being able to change data sources in the UI. This is only in v3. V2 does not have data sources at all.

https://v3-docs.ohif.org/configuration/url

Look at how google cloud/authentication DICOM store projects are served.

You can run following command to see how we handle Google oidc in OHIF

METEOR_PACKAGE_DIRS="../Packages" NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0 meteor --settings ../config/oidc-googleCloud.json

---

### Why there are more files for the build in v3-stable

A: Lots of stuff chunked into various files and we have wasm codecs etc. The most important file is index.html

---

### When we do yarn:build-package-all it fails. Why? Is there a related PR? (Gabriel’s PR)

https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3172

A: This will be fixed when v3 is merged to master, but you don’t need to build all packages. Run yarn build in the root

---

### Is the build taking too long? 10 minutes if building all extensions, modes.

A: You might need to cache your yarn install in the server

---

### Is there any support for handling ultrasound measurements (might have different partitions: Ultrasound Regions Attribute). If it has two regions it can’t (but one region it can).

A: PixelValues in Ultrasound can be measured in different units. For a probe tool we need to figure out which region it is and use the pixel value + region information to figure out what type of units it is. If you click on flow in the heart -> m/s, and there is a way to convert pixel value to measurement value. Conversion is quite straightforward. It is not too hard.

---

### NM multiframe files seem to be missing image position patient in the sequence.

A: NM seems to not follow dicom standard, we can use slice thickness for the non-projected NM

---

### Volume swapping (cache api), memory allocation.There seems to be a lag when (large) volume is allocated

A: Large volume takes time to allocate. Replacing slices using texSubImage3D probably has no problem. We can do some partial volume rendering which moves the volume origin and replace data after certain position in the slices.
