# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-03-30

---

## Q & A

### Mitigation of the security concerns for the dynamic config

A: The regex might be useful to add another layer of protection. The concerns right now are such that if STOW, QIDO and WADO are different, then the attacker can just download or post into a malicious backend. The regex can say it should only allow local configurations (no http).

So a default regex of something like: [a-zA-Z.0-9]+(/[a-zA-Z.0-9]_)_
Could allow for your case (above regex) | (https://mysafehost.hosptical.com/config/[a-zA-Z0-9.]*)

We need regex to avoid easy exploit
Set same-origin to avoid potential harder exploit
Use a descriptive name (longer the better, similar to danegrouslySetInnerHTML)

---

### Orthanc server slow with OHIF

A: You can ping the database to see what is the response time

Create an issue with anonymized data if you can here https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D-beta

Consider using static-dicomweb as a cache layer. It has been a while since I configured that.
Check what the internal format is, and see if you can request the original type?

If the data is stored on disk already gzipped and octet-stream, then it should be fast, but if your data is not gzipped then the server should gzip it, this should be configured in the server side on client side though. You can also use other content-types like jpeg. Some servers have known issues for compression and decompression for the US for LEI.

Also you can consider adding a http3 cache proxy or configure nginx to support http2/3.

https://varnish-cache.org/ might be another way to speed things up.

---

### Matching relative to displaySets

A: There is a custom attribute called sameAs which uses the configuration of the block, and it matches the given attribute.

---

### Multiframe volume support for NM open PRs

https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3164

---

### StateSyncService may be causing this error?

Here
https://v3-demo.ohif.org/viewer?StudyInstanceUIDs=1.3.6.1.4.1.25403.345050719074.3824.20170125095722.1

Click on second series (which is MPRable)
Click on third series
Go MPR
Can’t render
