# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-11-23


## Q & A

Attendees: 8

### Q: Recall, there is an issue where an RtStruct is able to loads on segmentation panel, but it does not render.


A: However, we still see the same issue.  It sounds like you are working on an alternate solution.  If so, where is it tracked?   I would like to provide some dataset with this issue.


---

### Q: If a RtStruct is created on a series with slice thickness of  2mm, would the solution also render on a series with slice thickness of 1mm, on the same FoR.

A: No, currently the segmentation only renders on the same FOR and the same slice thickness.  Example would be creating a registration on the CT and expecting to see it on the PT.  Interpolation being added late this year/early next year.  Might work for your use case.  Might render surfaces, but that might be quite slow.

---


### Q: Is there any working example of the nifti loader in React? We try to run the niftiBasic example in a React project but it fails to compile.

A: Nifti reader doesn’t have a very good export system, may need to update that. Suggest creating a small repo that reproduces the issue and we can try looking at it.

---

### Q: What is the recommended solution to reset zoom level when switching between grid layouts.

A: There is some enhancement in this part of the viewer. If you zoom in/change the pan, then expect this to not be changed when you change the layout. Can create onLayoutChange in the hanging protocol.

---

### Q: Follow-up on: Can you please point us to the changes 3.6.0 -> 3.7.0 that were implemented for DICOM_SEG display?

A: Look for Segmentation_4X in the adapters, at the flip code getValidOrientation. Not just flipping, as even reversing the data still shows it incorrectly. See [OHIF Documentation](https://docs.ohif.org/development/link) and [OHIF Pull Request #3577](https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3577).

