# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-07-27

---

## Q & A

## Q: We have a US dataset that we are trying to use DICOM SEG approach along with an instance segmentation model. We face a lot of issues with reading the generated SEGs with OHIF (masks not superposed on the image). We tried to generate the SEGs using both highdicom and dcmqi but the problem persists.

Stack viewport segmentation is not supported but we are working on it.

---

### Which features in OHIF use which datastore apis? I am working on the OHIF-AWS-HEALTHIMAGING adapter and it works for the study list and launching the viewer, but I only have 2-3 apis implemented. I want to know which features might break because of this.

we just added documentation on which end points are necessary for a custom data source

https://docs.ohif.org/platform/extensions/modules/data-source#custom-datasource

---

### For V3, certain browsers/graphic card setups seem to have issues rendering V3 viewport. I’m on Chrome Mac M1, and it only works if I have hardware acceleration on. Have seen some windows setup using chrome, where hardware acceleration doesn’t make a difference, on or off

https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3207

---

### Cornetstone3D Annotations are not removed when we make Crosshairs tool passive. It seems that there might be some bugs with measurements.

Passive state does not make a tool disappear.

https://www.cornerstonejs.org/docs/concepts/cornerstone-tools/tools#tool-modes

---

### Window Level auto computation uses the first image in the series. Is there a way to use the middle image instead? It is creating a problem with series that has air in the first images

Window level in Stack Viewport is per slice and gets fixed once the user changes it.
