# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-08-17

---

## Q & A

## What could be the root cause of the difference in color of dicom when rendered with cornerstone and with horos?

A: seems like the local dicom drag and drop works so it might be a server problem. Try another server and see if it works.

https://github.com/RadicalImaging/Static-DICOMWeb

---

## Is there any way/config to change the decode(dicom decompression) part alone with another decoder in OHIF ?

A: needs a fork

@cornerstonejs/dicom-image-loader —> @cornerstonjs/codecs

You can add your own codecs which requires fork
List of all transfer syntax UIDs are in the documentation
HTJ2K is already added with transfer syntax UID of 3.2.840.10008.1.2.4.96

packages/dicomImageLoader/src/shared/decodeImageFrame.ts

https://chafey.github.io/openjphjs/test/browser/index.html

---

## How does the cornerstone annotation tool determine the units ? Can we change it?

A: it is based on the calibration data.

For US calibrated regions you need to go through a calibrated regions list for the US and determine if the set of points that are provided are contained in that list and if all points are contained in the same region you can return units from that region otherwise you should return something else.

---

## Are the codecs in an OHIF extension or are they hard linked in? For AHI, we only need HTJ2K so would like to reduce the footprint by only including HTJ2K support. Also - might even want to get rid of the WADOImageLoader entirely and use an AHIImageLoader which just has HTJ2K support loaded via extension.

A: they are dynamically loaded by demand.

---

## I think I noticed that the web workers are destroyed when you return to the study list - is that correct? Starting web workers has a cost and it would be good to keep them around if possible. This is especially true when you run lots of web workers (the default is 3, I want to run 8 or more)

A: seems like you are right, we have a cleanup in the `onModeExit` which we should investigate to remove

onModeExit: (): void => {
// Empty out the image load and retrieval pools to prevent memory leaks
// on the mode exits
Object.values(cs3DEnums.RequestType).forEach(type => {
imageLoadPoolManager.clearRequestStack(type);
imageRetrievalPoolManager.clearRequestStack(type);
});

csWADOImageLoader.destroy();
enabledElementReset();
},
