# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-11-02


## Q & A

Attendees: 15

### Q: Can I show an annotation's coordinates captured on a 1000x1000 image at the same positions when viewed in a different viewer?

A: OHIF works in the world coordinate system
Read about that: 
https://slicer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/coordinate_systems.html

Convert your coordinates to world coordinates.  ITK has tools for conversion.
TransformIndexToPhysicalPoint

extensions/cornerstone-dicom-sr/src/utils/addMeasurement.ts
Does some conversion that you can use as a base.


---

### Q: Are there any limitations to using cornerstone 3d on mobile browsers?

A: There should not be any limitations as we know regarding tools, for rendering you might experience some memory limitations based on the OS

---

### Q: Can we centralize the decode dispatch logic in the codecs library?

https://github.com/cornerstonejs/codecs/issues/36

A: Yes, that has already been done in @cornerstonejs/dicom-codec

Consider using this in dicomImageLoader - but this would need lazy loading and ensure the loading works in the web worker context.

---

### Q: Can OHIF be built without the dicomimageloader for backends that aren't DICOM?

A: How about you register your custom image loader inside the imageLoaders?

---

### Q: How to share a study link when using the google healthcare api without requiring Google authentication?

A: Document was probably written for private data.  Probably undo the parts that deal with OAuth and remove the OAuth server authentication to make it fully open without signing in.
Then, remove the OAuth configuration from the client configuration.


---

### Q: Is a separate button the best approach for TMTV mode with PET/MR?

A: No, probably the right approach is to modify the mode to be able to launch on PT with either CT or MR  isValid to allow either (CT or MR)
Then, copy the tmtv hanging protocol to a second one that matches MR instead of CT
ProtocolMatchingRules will need to be updated in the protocol



hangingProtocol: [tmtv.hangingProtocol, tmtv.hangingProtocolPTMR],

isValidMode should also be edited to allow for PT MR


---

### Q: Is adding stages the right method to display different views in HP?

A: Yes, that's the correct way. Refer to `mnGrid` for multi-stage examples or the tmtv mode. Use keys like '.' and ',' to navigate between stages.

---

### Q: Hello! We’re building our own viewer based on Cornerstone3D. Initially, we’ve integrated Cornerstone3D as explained in /examples. But I’ve noticed that in OHIF there was a migration from “cornerstone-wado-image-loader” to “@cornerstonejs/dicom-image-loader”: https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3339 When migrating, I noticed that there’s a TS error: TS7016: Could not find a declaration file for module. This TS error is present in OHIF codebase as well ( line 1 in extensions/cornerstone/src/utils/DicomFileUploader.ts, for example).

A: You can ignore that error. It's a known issue. It's a problem with the way the package is built. It's not a problem with the package itself.


---


### Q: We are using a volume viewer with streaming volume loader in a hybrid mobile app, the problem is it has a bigger memory footprint on iOS, than required. As there is GPU rendering, any ideas what's the best way to minimize memory footprint ?


The initial memory is for allocating the 0 empty volume. 
A: Really need to allocate that to inject the pixel data at the right position.

---

### Q: Why is image loading interrupted in the volume viewport?

A: Yes, this issue has been observed before. A reproducible step causing this is being looked into.

---

### Q: Are there plans to upgrade OHIF to react 18?

A: React 18 introduces a new rendering model (concurrent mode) that can cause slowdowns and breakages. This needs careful consideration before an upgrade.

---

### Q: Question about fixing Viewport.ts for resetting the camera clipping plane?

A: This seems logical, and further investigation will be done to incorporate the view up.

