# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-03-09

---

## Q & A

### Dynamic Configuration for OHIF v3

Right now there are an open PR that let you configure the OHIF Viewer with a JSON file given a URL to the JSON file.
However, we have not yet finalized it because of security concerns.

We also plan to add editable fields in the /debug route for the viewer to be able to change the configuration on the fly.

https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/2925
https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3137

---

### DICOM Segmentation and Reference Image Explanation

DiCOM seg does not have image embedded; it references the image; export dicom seg not yet in cornerstone3d; Alireza can help (with PR) for generating segmentation label map

---

### Optimize the performance of the PlanarFreehand ROI stats calculations

Seems like the code for finding out whether a point is inside a polygon is not optimized. We should look into it and see if we can improve it.
There are some algorithms to be used for this.

---

### Cornerstone3D threshold Preview tool

Configuration of threshold should go into a tool (eg. setBrushThresholdForToolGroup) which changes the configuration; need a render loop which takes new configurations and calculates new thresholds – maybe stick to renderAnnotation

---

### Indicator to save to the same SR series or not

Maybe we use a split button with options

---

### Difference in behaviour with seriesInstanceUID in URL between v2 and v3

Yes, there are some differences. We should look into it and see if we can improve it. We think we should
show all the study thumbnails and only activate and render the specific series that is in the URL.
