# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-12-07


## Q & A

Attendees: 14


### Q: I’d like to know how things are going for viewport improvements, especially for resetting zoom level when switching between grid layouts.

A: I'm currently working on this so stay tuned.

---

### Q: How to load multiple segmentations on load and switch them using the Segmentation dropdown in the right panel?

A: Use the latest version of OHIF and run command loadSegmentationsForViewport.

---

### Q: Last week an error was discussed with my colleague, we reproduced it and add it in here: [Issue 914](https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/issues/914). Was there a chance to have a look at it?

A: Seems like a bug in the nifti loader and how they package the library.

---

### Q: I am trying to replicate the behavior of the mpr crosshairs tool with the horizontal and vertical guides in my stack crosshairs tool that I have imported. Where can I find the code for this and how to add the 4 lines?

A: The drawing works with any annotation tool through a callback, for example, for dragging. Update the annotation's state during interactions, then convert the updated data back to canvas coordinates for rendering.

---

### Q: We have made some progress on the compressed DICOM issue ([Issue 917](https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/issues/917)). Any idea on why commenting out a code segment in decodeJPEG2000 resolves the leaking issue?

A: The issue might be related to different code or metadata reading. For testing with the Chris demo, use the specific frame data from Cornerstone drag and drop [here](https://rawgit.com/cornerstonejs/dicomParser/master/examples/dumpWithDataDictionary/index.html), you need to check the checkboxes on the top and download 
the frame from the bottom of the page and drag and drop it into the demo by Chris

---

### Q: Advice on modified segmentation panel - have a standardised workflow with standard segmentation labels.

A: Unfortunately, that is a known limitation, and we have to fix it in the future.

---

### Q: We use wadors loading but it seems to be using both the wadorsmetadataprovider and the wadourimetadataprovider. Any idea why?

A: It is expected as multiple providers can be used, each with a priority. Metadata is sought from providers in order of priority.

---
