# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-08-24

---

## Q & A

### Q: I am trying to build a simple web service using cornerstone3D and orthanc. The orthanc server requires authentication to protect the data and in the frontend I’m loading images using the volume loader with the @cornerstonejs/streaming-image-volume-loader. The webImageLoader allows for custom headers but the volume loader and the dicom-image-loader look like they don’t. Are there ways to add custom headers to support something like JWT auth or does anyone have a recommendation on how to add auth to the system in any other way?

A: Look at OHIF source code, see initWADOImageLoader, when configuring dicomImageLoader add the various headers - in particular authorization header. Streaming-image-volume-loader is used for streaming volumes and the requests go through dicomImageLoader.
Who: Wen

---

### Q: How to create a custom segmentation type? We have image data as dataURL and want to connect this data to OHIF/cornerstonejs segmentation store, so that it can be easily managed in OHIF viewer like other sementations like Labelmap.

Understands which canvas coordinates are in your overlay
Use the api viewport.canvasToWorld to convert those points to the world

then use createSegmentationForDisplaySet which requires displaySetUID -> reference (e.g., CT), This will grab the metadata from the reference. It creates an empty volume with segmentationId in the cache

Now the task is to grab those worldCoordinates and get the scalarIndex (worldToIndexVec3) for the empty volume and fill it in worldCoordinates and get the scalarIndex
Trigger segmentationdata \_modified event

In cornerstone js

createAndCacheDerivedVolume to create empty volume
Then fill it in
Use segmentation api to create segmentation out of a volume and add it
segmentation.addSegmentations

Finally add the segmentation representation

await segmentation.addSegmentationRepresentations

---

### Q: BW: Image quality is quite poor at 1:1 (1 image pixel to 1 screen pixel) view with contrasting pixel values. Wondering if it is known why? Wondering if we need to set the focal point properly and/or arrange to have integer pixel values specified

The following code seem to do some manipulation to make it 1 to 1

function scale(v = 1) {
const canvas = document.getElementsByClassName('cornerstone-canvas')[0];
const height = Number(canvas.height);
const width = Number(canvas.width);
const viewport = window.cornerstone.getEnabledElements()[0].viewport;
viewport.setCamera({ parallelScale: height/v });
viewport.viewportStatue = 'preRender';
window.cornerstone.getRenderingEngines()[0].render();
}

canvas = document.getElementsByClassName('cornerstone-canvas')[0];
viewport = window.cornerstone.getEnabledElements()[0].viewport;

scale();

But seems like not always that is the case, to achieve 1:1 sometimes the parallel scale should be set to height, sometimes to height/2 and sometimes to 2\*height
