# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-03-02

---

## Q & A

### For some reason the installViewer does not update the ohifViewerConfig. Even flushing session storage cache does not help. However, something is reusing the old config.

See issues 1374, 2615 and 2245.

A: Perhaps try embedding as an iframe? Maybe just change the data source?Alireza to create an issue describing how to proceed.

---

### In cornerstone-legacy, nifti loader. Can we use itk wasm for decoding?

A: itk wasm is on the roadmap, but not immediate. We use nifti loader js which seems to be fine for loading speed.

---

### In cornerstone-legacy, Can we control the sequence of images? Suppose I want to load middle first, and to the top

A: There is a stack prefetch tool (in cornerstone tools) - stackprefetch.js - logic is there. Perhaps need to configure it not to sort and just feed the data in as per your liking. Perhaps just set the initial image?

---

### When will HTJ2K come to OHIF v3?

A: It will, but not immediately.

---

### Should DICOM SR show full series or just images that have annotations?

A: ICU doc maybe just wants to see images that have findings. For a radiologist, maybe it is not a problem, but then they have the series

https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/stacktovolumewithannotations

---

### HighDICOM generated DICOM SR is not hydratable inside OHIF

A: Look at MeasurementService to determine why measurements in SR are not hydrated. measurementServiceMappings (folder) might give further clues. We can only hydrate SRs tagged with “cornerstone” tags for the tracking identifier. However, look at cornerstonejs adapters to map (maybe write an OHIF extension that adds the adapter(s)) from SR to OHIF/cornerstone’s measurement state. Will need to change isRehydratable too.
