# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-11-09


## Q & A

Attendees: 13

## Q & A

### Q: Is it possible to download dataset from the OHIF demo? We are testing OHIF v3.7, and trying to isolate and troubleshoot issues.

A: Not unfortunatelly, but let us know which one you are interested in and we can try to help you with that.

---

### Q: I want to be able to load studies locally in the viewer while still referencing all the metadata from our backend.

A: Since the metadata is already contained in the DICOM files that are being loaded from local, you don’t need to query the metadata from the DICOMweb service. Your metadata that you mentioned is other types of metadata, which you can load separately from the local metadata, and add it to the view.

---

### Q: Is StackContextPrefetch always cache images from a specific window? If my window is more than cache size then will it stop caching?

A: There are two phases, phase 1 nearby images, then phase 2 up to memory limit. Phase 1 does not check whether there is sufficient memory to download. This is not well documented, and probably needs to be looked at to describe it, and maybe a couple of fixes to ensure that phase 1 doesn't overrun the memory limits.

---

### Q: Are there any updates regarding the Segmentations are misplaced in v3.7.0, it worked fine in v3.6.0 issue?

A: We will try to look this week. Trying in Slicer, doesn’t seem to want to display it. Please update the issue with what is normal and reverse order. Orientation code was added in 3.7, and that code is required.

---

### Q: Currently in Niger, we are experiencing a somewhat exceptional situation. Is it possible for us to use an OHIF Viewer directly inside our existing NextJS 13 APP router?

A: Yes, it is possible to embed OHIF as an iframe, and then the iframe is in your front-end app. The Next.js app router can address the authentication, and then the iframe doesn’t need to deal with authentication. [OHIF Iframe Documentation](https://docs.ohif.org/deployment/iframe).

---

### Q: Can we render segmentations in the `renderAnnotations` method overriding AnnotationTool?

A: This is being worked on in the next couple of months, including a spline tool with interpolation and polygon tools. Will try to get a roadmap for CS3D. Use the pointInShape function to figure out which pixels are within the freeform. Mark all of those sections as being in the segmentation. You will likely need to implement that function for the freeform. [Geometry Article](https://mochima.com/articles/cuj_geometry_article/cuj_geometry_article.html).

---

### Q: When I want to change slice (Slab) thickness, for example from 1mm to 6mm, what is the best way to sync mouse scroll in OHIF?

A: Should be done automatically. Check if you are on an old version. OHIF seems to do something slightly different - goes slice by slice instead of going by slab. Crosshairs seems to be doing it right. Look at how that is done to see what is relevant. Jason prefers slice by slice for MIP mode with different thicknesses. Would like it configurable. Jumps by half a slab right now.

---

### Q: Need some pointer or help on cornerstone issue on Apple M2.

A: Try Chromium Canary - latest release, about 2 months ahead. Try on other client systems (e.g., Windows or Linux). Report to Chromium forum. Seems to go away on garbage collection. Heap snapshot is around 400 MB, which is roughly the size expected. This is really an issue in the browser. Alireza will try because he is also on M2.

---

### Q: Slow time to first image when loading study. My datasource is OHIF.

A: There are two related searches for studies. One is for study data for the current study, the other is for priors.

---
