# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-10-05


## Q & A

Attendees: 15


### Q: I'm currently utilizing the length tool, but when attempting to create a line on Ultrasound, it consistently provides measurements in 'px' rather than 'mm'. What might be the underlying issue here?

A: Look at `StackViewport.getImageDataGPU` and check if `hasPixelSpacing` is set. At OHIF, there is custom logic for Ultrasound in `platform/core/src/utils/metadataProvider/getPixelSpacingInformation.js`. However, support for Ultrasound regions is currently limited.

---

### Q: I'm getting the following error (image attached). Is creating multiple RenderingEngine a good approach or not? Is there any wayout from this error?

A: Most likely some of the metadata for volumes are missing. You can look in `packages/streaming-image-volume-loader/src/helpers/makeVolumeMetadata.ts` for more details.

---

### Q: Want to know more about Position aware cache? Say my cache size is 100 MB and & have a single series containing 500 images, each with a size of 1 MB.

A: You got it almost to the point. The cache will dynamically update based on where you're scrolling, loading nearby images into the cache as needed.

---

### Q: I am facing the RAM issue while rendering unit8 data as well. 

A: Seems like a lot of RAM is used for webworkers, and when we terminate them, the RAM usage drops significantly.

---

### Q: We’re working on creating a multi-volume viewer using Cornerstone3D. How should we approach this?

A: Have a look at the cornerstone3D examples, particularly the PET/CT live examples. OHIF is an example of a React app using cornerstone3D.

---
