# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-12-14


## Q & A

Attendees: 19

### Q: I saw a comment on github that you are revamping RTSTRUCT.  Can you describe what that entails?  In particular, I am interested in the following:
**Able to render RTSTRUCT on series for same frame of reference, but different slice thickness
Able to use image stack sync when RTSTRUCT loads
Solve the bug where RTSTRUCT does not render on axial plane
(nice to have) render RTSTRUCT on MPR.  **

A: We are working on revamping the RTSTRUCT and contours to use the SVG tools that we have and for that purpose 
it will work on all acquisition planes. For more advanced use cases which require us to go to surfaces
we will work on it in the next year. Stay tuned for more updates on this.

---

### Q: How to control image fetching priorities when converting stack viewports into volume viewports? We are prefetching all instance images for the study in background, and it causes black screen in the viewport when switching to volume viewport, it seems that volume viewport is being rendered after all images in the queue are fetched.

A: Does it render - yes, it renders, but no images appear for quite a while.
Seems like a priority issue, if you want a lower priority task you should put higher number, it is kind of counter intuitive.

---

### Q: Can you explain what are the projection points in the RectangleROIStartEndThresholdTool ?

A: What is being tried is to enable threshold for all tools, not just rectangles, trying to figure out what the projection points mean.  For the brush tools, a change was recently made to split the brush definition up into various parts such as thresholding, the defined area, previewing, etc.    If you split the tools up into using the new strategy composition pattern, then you can apply the threshold to other tools. 

packages/tools/src/tools/segmentation/strategies/compositions/threshold.ts


### Q: About compressed DX issue.
**I did a diff check for the src files as you suggested. Only 2 files have changed and I'm pretty sure the issue is in the J2Decoder. Here are the links to the diff J2KDecoder diff, CMakeLists diff.
I tried to understand what could cause the issue in these changes. I think it is either the disabling of strict mode (Chris's code disables strict mode) or the additional things done by cornerstone's version (Create a JavaScript-friendly result from the memory view and color_sycc_to_rgb).
What do you think? Would you be able to compile the library with disabling the strict mode so that we can try?
Notes about what is done since last week
I tried copying the js and wasm files to the nodemodules but it fails with Failed to execute 'postMessage' on 'DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope': ArrayBuffer is not detachable and could not be cloned which makes sense as the builds are actually quite different
Adding try catch didn't work, although I catch and set the codec to null or used another variable it somehow leaks and I get done() invoked with non-Error: Aborted(). Build with -sASSERTIONS for more info on the second, non-problematic DX
I compared Chris' sample code and the way decode is done in cornerstone. Cornerstone uses decoder.decode(); instead of decoder.decodeSubResolution(decodeLevel, decodeLayer) and cornerstone's getPixelData creates Int8Array and Uint8Array instead of just returning the decodedBuffer. I don't think these can cause anything**


A: You can build it yourself by checking out the codecs package:   https://github.com/cornerstonejs/codecs.git
yarn install
git submodule update –init –recursive
Ensure you have docker up and running
Go in visual studio into the source directory and start up the dev containers version (ctrl-shift-p select rebuild and open in devcontainer)
This will run the build in a dockerized container to be able to build the updated version.
First launch takes a LONG time
cd packages/openjpeg
yarn test should fail
yarn build
yarn test should now pass  (will run the build cmake command)


See this as well 
https://github.com/uclouvain/openjpeg/issues/211

--- 

### Q: Issue 3824 regarding disappearing cursor when drawing boxes in segmentation mode using MPR view.

A: Bug verified.  Happens with several tools, clicking in segmentation mode on edge of shape.  Also seems to happen with a second segment getting added.  Issue is that tools allow both click/move/click to create, and drag to create.
Please add this to the issue.  

---- 

### Q: Also, is there a way to download the same studies that are available in OHIF demo viewer? We tried to pull them using DICOM Web, but full dcm binary is not retrievable.

A: We don’t have a tool to do this right now, but it is getting added to static-dicomweb as soon as Bill has time for this.

--- 

### Q: Is there anything special about the vtk implementation under the hood in cornerstone? I don’t have the code available to share at the moment, but I was unable to implement a feature that required configuring vtk widgets in the past.

A: Ultimately we are trying to implement something like this: https://kitware.github.io/vtk-js/examples/ImageCroppingWidget.html or https://kitware.github.io/vtk-js/examples/Picking.html	
using actors, maybe widgets but not sure yet.

Mostly we use VTK for rendering, but we don’t use the widget or picking system internally.  Look in packages/core/src/RendingEngine.  Look at vtkOpenGLRenderWindow and vtkStreaming…
You can try adding a tool that adds a vtk actor to the viewport on clicking the volume.  Then feeding the mouse movement etc to the widgets.  
Other tools have managed this successfully.  
There isn’t any priority for this right now, but would be willing to take a good PR into the design.  This should be the same resolution, but could be different performance.

Are there issues with using VTK directly in CS3D for rendering?  There are examples of this in Cornerstone legacy for the vtk viewport.  Suggest not touching the cornerstone for this, but spawn a new viewport instead.

https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/tree/v2-legacy/ 

--- 

### Q: Are there any additional guides on upgrading cornerstone? We’re on pretty old versions:  

A: Try simple rendering first, stack viewport.  Upgrade all the tools at once to 1.x - the tools are dependent on each other.
You will have to add @cornerstonejs/dicom-image-loader, and remove the CS1 dicom-image-loader (it is mostly replaceable with the new one).

---

### Q: We would like to merge https://github.com/dcmjs-org/dcmjs/pull/360 since adapters are still being used. Any concerns that it can affect OHIF components?

Suggest contributing to the cornerstone3d @cornerstonejs/adapters package.  The existing adapters are deprecated and only used for cornerstone/ohif v2 legacy

--- 

### Q: Just wanted an updated on the pdf issue: https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3826

A: Yes, we will try to get that fixed this week

--- 

### Q: How do I add overlay information for multiple datasets in a fused viewport for both volumes displayed in the viewport?


A: Look at the customizable overlay to add a custom viewport overlay.  You can do this in the mode itself so it only applies while your custom mode is active.
https://docs.ohif.org/platform/services/ui/customization-service#customizable-viewport-overlay

