# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-05-04

---

## Q & A

### A tool to overlay a mask on the image with opacity

Try the Labelmap tools. https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/labelmapsegmentationtools

You could fuse two DICOM files/images. Create DICOM file from png and copy/import metadata from source

Or use a custom tool. Grab the cornerstone viewport and overlay a canvas on the viewport and render the image.

---

### External dependencies gives error for external extensions

Want to import some OHIF-based files(e.g, extension-default or extension-cornerstone) directly into custom built extension(my extension)

import getActiveViewportEnabledElement from '@ohif/extension-cornerstone/src/utils/getActiveViewportEnabledElement';

This line causes an error

https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3364

---

### OHIF Healthcare adapter needs documentation

https://github.com/RadicalImaging/ohif-healthlake

---

### Custom Data source creation

There is an interface to satisfy for the data source implementation.
For initialize, the (route) params and query params are passed in to set up the data source
Then implement the retrieve.series
Ultimately data needs to be added to the DicomMetadataStore

---

### Prior matching for studies in Hanging Protocols

In HPService why studies shown isn’t updated on expanding in “all studies” list
The run method on the HPService is run on the initial load, and that decides the initial set of studies to show. This is only provided the studies listed in the URL initially, so for the initial decide method, that is all that is considered for the initial view. On expanding the list, I think that should add the expanded study to the list of available studies. It might also set the “active” study UID - and if not, then it could be made to do so, but we will have to discuss what that means/implies. Assuming it sets the active study, then applying a hanging protocol after that would apply the hanging protocol to the selected study. Alternatively, it would be possible to add a command to re-run the hanging protocol “run” method on the new study selection, which would then apply the combined selection.

As part of the hanging protocols, there are a few concepts to consider:
Active study - this is a single study that the hanging protocol considers the one to apply a default HP to.
Primary studies - these are studies that the user is actively reporting on
Prior studies - these are studies that the user is using to support the interpretation of the primary. These are the ones listed in the middle tab.
Other patient studies - these are just other studies that aren’t being actively used as comparisons for the primary - think of them as potential priors
Note that active and primary are related but there is one active, and it can be a prior study, while there can be multiple primaries.
There needs to be a way in a hanging protocol to specifically select a primary or a prior, separately from other types.

This is unfortunately a very complex area, and figuring out when and how to apply hanging protocols isn’t easy.
