# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-09-14

## Q & A

### Q: Can I change the opacity of the overlaid dicom? Can I get the information of the slice where a particular annotation is drawn?

A: Look at hanging protocol the ptDisplaySet. Ultimately it is the ColorMap that is set. Already implemented in OHIF (jumpToSlice) inside OHIFCornerstoneViewport. There is a utility in CS3d.

---

### Q: I think we found 2 bugs in OHIF that can be tested here 

A: The double click issue might be related to PR 3591. Likely in the toggleOneUp command. Please log a bug for the second issue.

---

### Q: I want to load tailwind config files via extension. My goal is without modifying OHIF code to update the changes, that way i can maintain the UI changes in extension. Share your thoughts/Ideas. 

A: Feel free to update the core tailwind config file. 

---

### Q: Is there any config/option to check study/series/image loading time.

No there is not. cornerstone.cache._imageCache (loadTimeInMS) Maybe look at adding a stack prefetch event.

---

### Q: ReferenceLines are moving when we use other tools like Zoom or Pan. Can we make the reference lines full width to canvas, and not moving with other tool interactions?

A: It is intended to work as it is to give an idea of the slice location in the other view(s). Look at referenceLinesTool - look at renderAnnotation. Consider adding a configuration option.

---

### Q: Why is the release branch not named with the version (e.g. 3.0.0)? Current strategy makes it hard to reference a specific version - need to use hash.

A: Perhaps use tags instead

---

### Q: Can I load the input files in chunks? I am trying to run OHIF viewer as a desktop application. I have a local dicom web server which starts as part of the desktop app which loads binary dicom files from a folder. This data can be as big as 8000 instances.

A: Maybe do a couple of passes? 1. Javascript dicom-parser has a 'until tag' so you can just read the metadata (and not the metadata) maybe?

---

### Q: A follow-up question to https://github.com/OHIF/OHIF-Office-Hours/blob/main/notes/2023-09-07.md#q-also-is-it-possible-to-load-not-the-image-as-a-whole-but-to-load-it-in-tiles-based-on-the-zoom-level

A: Probably we need a script for it. But certainly, the WSI does not.
In addition you might want to check if your system can render 16 bit textures which cs3d supports, (PR for OHIF not merged yet, but I will create one soon) [Link to WebGL Report](https://webglreport.com/?v=2) to check if you have support for EXT_texture_norm16

Related PRs https://github.com/Kitware/vtk-js/pull/2058 and https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3292/files

---

### Q: We are trying to migrate from OHIFv2 to v3. We are following the ohif-json approach for data sources. What I want to know is – is it backward compatible?

A: In v2 there are not these 4 tags: BitsAllocated, PixelRepresentation, PhotometricInterpretation, Rows, Columns might not be needed in v2.

---

### Q: Hey, will you be looking to add support for other files like trk (stream file) or vtk in the future?

A: Not in the roadmap but you can add it as an extension.

