# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-02-23

---

## Q & A

### How to download to local file system a DICOM segmentation

A:

https://github.com/dcmjs-org/dcmjs

You can use this tool to export DICOM segmentation… look at the dcmjs examples for a download example

- it is based on cornerstone legacy, so look at the code for an example of how it was/is being done
- how to get segblob? Uses cornerstone generate segmentation; cornerstone 3D does not have it yet; perhaps you can start a PR for adding/adapting it to cornerstone 3D?; look at Segmentation_4x.js (in legacy)
- write a function that fills in segmentation from label map - slice by slice ; segmentation.addSegmentFromLabelmap - adds in pixel data

https://github.com/dcmjs-org/dcmjs/blob/b4732d7b677b8cbb7ae12276019e18371a4864a6/src/adapters/Cornerstone/Segmentation_4X.js

---

### Using cornerstone-legacy in OHIF v3, loading using s3 bucket, each url has an expiry time, when it expires. Once the displaySet is created, it stores imageIds in the stack, but let’s say after 10 minutes that url expires. How to force refresh.

A: look at ohifcornerstoneviewport - there is invalidation on cache service; perhaps need to update DisplaysetService - might need to add something there; Perhaps invalidate/update DicomMetaStore. Perhaps remove the DisplaySet and metadata. After adding instances, things might fall into place?

Bill might have a draft PR that might help.

The goal of the changes to displays set is that you end up with the SAME display set data whether you throw away every display set and re-create all the display sets, OR you update the display sets. Thus, changing the display sets should only occur on changes to underlying metadata where the result of reparsing that metadata would result in the updated display sets.

Some examples:
If a single frame image is added to a series, then the single frame image is added to the existing single frame display set
If a multi frame image is added to a series, a new display set is created for the multi frame (because a new display set would be created by reparsing the metadata)
If a DICOM SR is added to an existing series, then the SR DisplaySet should have the DICOM SR added to it as an update. This preserves the display set UID’s which may be stored/cached.

Some examples of new display sets:
When a filter is applied to images in a display set, to choose only “HEAD” images instead of neck/shoulders, then a NEW display set is created containing just the HEAD images.
When the DICOM SR viewport wants to show all images with annotations on it, then the images are added to a new display set which is “madeInClient”

One particular example that is an update, that looks like the second case is if the underlying DICOM metadata is filtered at load time, then the display sets should be updated to match (possibly removing some). This is treated as modifying the underlying study, and not as a special view, as the DICOM metadata isn’t even present any longer.

---

### Should the longitudinal mode use save to same series?

There is PR https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3140 that changed saving to DICOM SR to re-use the series with the same series description. This is only applied to non-longitudinal mode. Should it be applied to longitudinal mode as well? The reasoning is that it reduces the number of series with the same description, which prevents confusion as to what instance to look at. However, it also does not add functionality to view older saved instances when in the same series. That functionality COULD be added, but has not currently been added.

---

### How to implement a threshold preview tool using cornerstone-3d. A tool that apply a threshold on the whole image and bounces the opacity

A: Look at fillSphere or fillRectangle or fillCircle (maybe write a fillCube) - each fill has constraints and threshold parameters. Look at SegmentationService.highlightSegment for animation.

---

### Install Viewer is not in OHIF v3, is it coming?

A: Probably won’t do this - there are lots it likely cannot handle (e.g. webworker, codecs, etc.) Perhaps have a look and see what might need to be done?

---

### In OHIF v2, there is an upload functionality, is it coming to OHIF v3.

A: Yes. Soon. Look at code in v2, if you need it sooner rather than later.

---

### OHIF Cornerstone SR viewport, what is the desired behavior for images getting shown. The design doc says it should only show the images that have markup, we are not doing that.

A: Will ask project manager… for workflow change
