# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-09-07

## Q & A

### Q: I am loading mri datasets using the streaming volume image loader and then rendering the 2D images in the correct orientation. The problem is that when scrolling up and down, the closer I get to the first/last slices, it looks like data is missing and the slices are being cut off.

A: Removing the orientation will fallback to calculating the camera based on the acquisition. Grab the ImageOrientationPatient, take the cross product of those, and set the camera direction to that cross product. Look at volumeapi example, the view plane normal is the cross-product and view up is the negative of one of the orientation metadata. You can also set renderingEngine.setViewports([...]).

---

### Q: I’m migrating the OHIFv2 plugin for MONAI Label to the latest OHIF. However, after building the OHIF, I’m having an issue with the Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy.

A: Whatever is serving OHIF it should set the cross origin policies of COOP and COEP. See [OHIF documentation on CORS](https://docs.ohif.org/deployment/cors).

---

### Q: Using Cornerstone3D, Is it possible to load not all volume images at once, but to load them progressively?

A: There is a PR in OHIF that kind of does what you are saying [PR Link](https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3235) but it is in OHIF.

---

### Q: Also, is it possible to load not the image as a whole, but to load it in tiles based on the zoom level?

A: Not yet; we would like to have it in CS3D. OHIF right now uses [dicom-microscopy-viewer](https://github.com/ImagingDataCommons/dicom-microscopy-viewer) for tile rendering which only is possible in Whole Slide Imaging SOP class.

---

### Q: I’m trying to link my local instance of the OHIF viewer to AWS HealthImaging per docs.

A: [Issue Link](https://github.com/RadicalImaging/ohif-aws-healthimaging/issues/19).

---

### Q: What’s the best practice to store segmentation data on the database?

A: RLE encode might be one way to go, also DICOM compressed deflate transfer syntax might be a way to go. DICOM working group 4 is working on new transfer syntaxes for 1 bit images. For reading nrrd js, look at [monai label pr](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/MONAILabel/pull/1531).

---

### Q: Just to make the community aware, Orthanc solved the /metadata performance in DicomWeb API using caching of the response.

A: The problem was about the storage backend, and it was going to each dicom instance one by one. To solve that, Orthanc pre-built the response and stored them as a single json file, so when you call /metadata data is available. Bill: additional optimization is when you store metadata it is already gzipped.

---
