# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-08-10

---

## Q & A

## Q: For the volume loader, how does the pixel data from the image loader get added to the volume, and where would be the correct place to overwrite an image frame within the volume? See: BaseStreamingImageVolume.ts --> handleArrayBufferLoad vs. updateTextureAndTriggerEvents

Answer:
updateTextureAndTriggerEvents is used when the sharedArrayBuffer is being used for volumes and the handleArrayBufferLoad is for the non sharedArrayBuffer load

---

### When playing CINE, it currently can get beyond the cached images and change images faster than they are available so goes black. What is the desired behaviour:

Play every image for the required length of time
Try to play at the desired frame rate, but skip images as required

Answer:
Seems like both scenarios are encountered using the clinical viewers depending on CINE or stack scroll tool.

---

### Multi-study hanging protocols were just fixed, but it ends up that it is hard to distinguish which study they come from. Also, it is hard to launch. Would like some feedback on both of these.

use coloured border to distinguish studies
Configure mode based hanging protocols launchable from “priors” thumbnails study list (eg launch as active study, run HP comparison hanging protocol etc)

Answer:
We need to rework the study browser having following features in mind
Pick studies to run a HP
Some indicator (red circle) for which study is which

Active study -> the one for which you have selected the viewport
Current -> the one that you are making report on
Prior -> using to enhance interpretation of current, but we are not reporting on prior

Relevant priors -> usually same body part (not necessarily modality)
we think are related to the current study, they might have the same department, or might have been done on the same hospital visit or

All -> all

---

### I’d like to know how I can know that all viewports are enabled and the stacks are being loaded on OHIF Viewer load. I know there is an event that is fired on NEW_STACK_VIEWPORT, but this is not enough when we have multiple viewports on the grid layout.

Answer:
You can use element_enabled event and using viewportgridservice state and count the number of viewports it is enabled to do the trick
