# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-07-27

## Q & A

Attendees: 7

Discussed:


📚 **Need a documentation link of static Wado server(local) to integrate to OHIF viewer, I tried following this link :https://github.com/RadicalImaging/static-dicomweb, but still i am confused calling the routes of where/when/how (files) to load the compressed/bulk data studies/study/series into the viewer.**

A: The default OHIF version in:
yarn test:e2e:serve
Is serving up the datasource using a static dicomweb deployed dataset in the testdata directory. It also has a datasource 'local5000' that you can test against a local dicomweb server running on port 5000.

---

🖼️ **We have converted the DICOM file to the compression format/transfer syntax using dmctk to "1.2.840.10008.1.2.4.51", which is the "JPEG Baseline (Processes 2 & 4): Default Transfer Syntax for Lossy JPEG 12-bit Image Compression (Process 4 only)." However, when the image is loaded onto the CS3D viewport, it appears much brighter, as if the window level has been changed. Upon checking the metadata, there are no indications of such changes. Further investigation revealed that the image has different RescaleSlope and RescaleIntercept metadata values. Interestingly, the image appears normal when viewed on the Weasis viewer. When I asked ChatGPT about this, it provided me with a formula. However, the formula does not seem to be working as the results are correct to me. Additionally, the CS3D viewport gave me an error. What should I do?**

A: What is dicom header, e.g., bits allocated, rescale slope, signed. 
Can you display using hangingProtocolId=@ohif/hpScale and navigate to the second, it will show it at one image pixel to one screen pixel and at second stage it will show at 16 to 1 Use a screen reader and the probe tool to read the modality lut corrected value and the window level formulas to figure out what the expected screen value should be. If that is different in OHIF, then please create a defect. If the value is the same in OHIF, then create a defect in Weasis.

Compression can affect rescale slope and intercept as we know it. It is not supposed to but for .51 sometimes it does. 

---

🔄 **It is possible to have help to setup a cornerstone example for multiframe images, we are trying to solve this issuehttps://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/pull/1285 the fix didn't work, the problem is that we are unable to make live testing of the fix as it seems that a part of the logic to read multiframe image are in ohif and not in cornerstone https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/blob/2845f0780641d419ad849bbe9bac69a8862f7dd0/platform/core/src/utils/combineFrameInstance.ts#L11 It sounds like we need to bring back this logic to cornerstone to be able to run an example of a multiframe image and debug this upside down volume. Sample dataset can be found here: https://nc-6563074006263353659.nextcloud-ionos.com/index.php/s/YcgzfFPgEXjsfkc**

A: We should take absolute for viewUp but not the absolute for slice positioning. 
Looking at this a bit more, it may be necessary to add changes to the _getAcquisitionPlaneOrientation to negate the viewUp depending on the orientation of hte images. Would like to have this NM as a sample in a bug report if possible (fully anonymized)

https://docs.ohif.org/development/link

---

🔬 **Do you have a plan to support segmentation at microscopy viewers as well? Currently, I can see that users can create measurements there.**

A: When the cornerstone viewport adds support for microscopy, using some currently in review PRs then it will be possible to add segmentation support using the contour segmentation support, which should be fairly easy, but the labelmaps will take a while.
Output 2: Summary

- 📚 Confusion regarding documentation and integration of static WADO server (local) with OHIF viewer
- 🖼️ Issue with image brightness and metadata values when converting DICOM file to JPEG compression format and viewing in CS3D viewport compared to Weasis viewer
- 🔄 Need for help setting up a Cornerstone example for multiframe images to debug upside-down volume issue and moving logic from OHIF to Cornerstone
- 🔬 Plan to support segmentation in microscopy viewers in OHIF
