# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-07-27

## Q & A

Attendees: 10

Discussed:



📜 **With V3, what is the recommended way to view the contents of a DICOM SR in a text format? Can I utilize the dicom-html extension for this? And will there be any conflicts/issues if two extensions define a sopclasshandler for the same class UID?**

A: dicom-html extension wouldn't be the ideal extension for this since that will just display the dicom tags as HTML, it would be better to have a custom dicom-sr-text-display extension that can display the measurement data as text. We welcome contributions if you plan to work on it.

Define a set of coding values that you would like to extract the data from, and return a sopClassHandler id that can be used for your specific SOPClassUID.

Reach out to OHIF team to discuss UI and design if planning to implement.

There is a possiblity that someone who has implemented this feature will push back to the main repository as open source.

---

💾 **Is the useNorm16Texture configuration flag still a good way to reduce memory usage? Are there any other good ways of reducing memory usage?**

A: The memory savings of useNorm16Texture are in place during loading and viewing, there should be a 50% reduction in memory usage. It would be great to open a github issue with the heap snapshots

You can look here on how to load large volumes 
https://docs.ohif.org/faq/technical#how-do-i-handle-large-volumes-for-mpr-and-volume-rendering

---

🚫 **Is there a way to disable series tracking entirely in the UI, or is this feature baked in? If I disable series tracking, is there any way to save annotation state to server?**

A: Yes, this is possible, be using the default @ohif/extension-default.panelModule.measure' panelModule instead of the tracking panel, replace that in your mode layout definition for right panel.

---

🔍 **The present OHIF script for generating the DICOM-JSON fails to write the JSON file for very large studies containing SEG modality. The size of the JSON file goes up to 350MB for a study size of 1.3 GB. Will there be a future update to the present script? Solved using JSONStream - error occurs when JSON.stringify() is called and the object is quite large - around 170 MB When exploring the above large json, we found a single file of SEG modality of size 15 MB, generates a DICOM-JSON of size 170 MB, using the script. Reason: for every frame it creates a separate instance object in the DICOM-JSON. Is this the expected behavior? If yes, then how do we handle this efficiently? (see image) Updates on a previous reported issue - Improve support of DICOM SR TID1500 containing groups of measurements derived from SEG · Issue #3390 · OHIF/Viewers (github.com)**

A: This is a limitation of the existing format, maybe create a bug report on the OHIF side and if there are resources available we can take a look at it, or you can explore a solution and submit a pull request to OHIF.

Addon Question: The SEG also doesn't load in the viewer for the above example

---

🔧 **Will the viewer allow for study export in DICOM/JPEG form? MPR tools - do they exist? Can we rotate/flip images within the MPR function and re-orient the images (for eval of joints is the most specific example) - can show joint position example and video of example MPR function from a different viewer. How to exit the MPR view once it's entered, to return to the basic viewer function Does the viewer offer 3d recons? Segmentation: What is the role of the segmentation button on the case list view and the segmentation tools within the viewer**

A: 
- You can export in JPEG form, but there's no implementation for DICOM format yet in the UI.
- Yes you can rotate in MPR, you can flip horizontally.
- Yes OHIF has 3D construction.
- The role of the segmentation button is to enter the segmentation mode, there are several tools available like brush, sphere brush, threshold tool, eraser, and many more coming later.



