# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-04-25

## Q & A

Attendees: 12

Discussed:

Q: 📉 **Having dynamic min and max values based on viewport content.**

A: Sure, I think we can add a similar pattern to what we have for the tools to tool options, that they have listeners and they run a command. The toolboxUI and toolboxSettings should be modified to achieve this.

I think it makes sense to make each value a dynamic listener that calls a function:

min: [
  {
    listeners: ['EVENT1', 'DISPLAY_SETS_CHANGED'],
    command: 'getMinValueForThreshold',
  },
],

--- 

Q: 🚀 Backend setup for viewer-dev.ohif.org for optimized image loading speed.
A: It uses static dicom web, the 300ms response time in AWS health imaging is not normal, maybe you should contact them. At OHIF we use static dicom web and host in S3 with a cloud front in the front.
https://github.com/RadicalImaging/Static-DICOMWeb/tree/master

---
Q: 🖼️ Example showing how to lay a complex SVG on an image.
A: Run the test data:
yarn test:data
APP_CONFIG=config/e2e.js yarn dev
And then debug the ImageOverlayTool and you see we have different means if the overlay is array or inline binary or bulkDataURI to grab it and you can take a look on how rendering to canvas context works as well.

---

Q: 🔍 Bug report for zoom issue.
A: Seems like we should grab the zoom factor from ﻿viewport.getZoom().

---
Q: 🔄 Applying different strategies for the same tool in OHIF.
A: You should probably look at the segmentation buttons in the segmentation mode on how to create new tool instances based on tool parent (brush).

---

Q: 📐 Code responsible for resizing viewport when canvas shrinks on collapsing side panels.
A: ReactResizeObserver's onResize fn inside ViewportGrid and OhifCornerstoneViewport. The resize action happens in the cornerstoneViewportService.resize.

---
Q: ⏱️ Using streaming-image-volume loader to speed up loading compared to default stack loading.
A: Not really if you don't need volume the stack viewport with stackContextPrefetch is much faster since we don't need to allocate the volume in memory initially.
