# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-05-23

## Q & A

Attendees: 12

Discussed:


🔍 **When we load US with multi slice data (containing single image), it shows orientation marker on viewport, ideally for this data we do not have image orientation and patient position DICOM tag available. Our OHIF code reads from metadata module and if not found it assign default value rowcosine and column cosine, is this a bug?**

A: We should not show orientation markers if the metadata not available and we default it to some values e.g., for US and cosines

---

🌟 **I created a pull request with a feature(s) we already use in our fork of CS3D and it will be nice to integrate them into the library, They are related to the Threshold preview functionality. https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/pull/1267 As a follow-up, we also want to create a PR to integrate this feature into the OHIF Viewer.**

A: Follow up in the Github PR

---

🐞 **On the segmentation panel, switching between segmentation from the dropdown causes the HP button to be un-responsive. Tested on v3.9.beta.14 https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/4158 Example to demo: https://viewer-dev.ohif.org/viewer?StudyInstanceUIDs=1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.3671.4754.298665348758363466150039312520**

A: We should investigate the problem and fix the issue white layout button

---

🎭 **Load a dicom SEG, and then load a dicom RT. OHIF becomes unresponsive. https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/4159**

A: Issue comes from the CornerstoneSRViewport because its a stack viewport, and when a SEG is loaded it converts to volume. We should be able to load SR first then SEG, right now this is also not working, investigate and fix.

---

🔄 **I wanted to catch up on this issue https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/4021 which we discussed during an office hour a couple of weeks ago. In the meanwhile the tag has changed from "awaiting reproduction" to "bug verified", I wanted to ask if it is planned to address this in the upcoming release?**

A: We should retain AlgorithmVersion and SegmentAlgorithName tags, retain SeriesInstanceUID if no changes were made to the original SEG.

---

🎨 **Our UI/UX team has a proposal to update some of the interface's CTAs to improve user experience. https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/4041**

A: We are already in the process of revamping the measurement panel, we will think about the naming then, we should make the 'EXPORT' buttons consistent in their functionality across the app

---

⚠️ **We get an error from cornerstone when going into the study viewer from the study browser or when using a direct link to the study URL, which causes some components like "L" and "R" for side identification to not render randomly. However, if I refresh the webpage with F5 or switch from one display to another with the "L" overlay no problem occurs. Where should I put the issue, in the cornerstone or OHIF git? Also, do you have any estimate of the increase of memory allocation for MPR and ·D volumes?**

A: Create an issue in CS3D repo with the anonymized data please, we also already have released increased memory allocation for MPR from 2GB to 4GB in CS3D.

---

🔀 **We had an old issue on the fusion algorithm of PET/CT which is not linear. Volview had the same issue initially, i reported it and they fixed it here :https://github.com/Kitware/VolView/pull/449 Is this fix in VolView is portable to cornerstone ? Any guidance on where we should look to port this ?**

A: There are plans to enhance the UI for fusion, possibly an additional action menu in the viewport, which would open a modal to allow the user to select the background image, foreground(fusion) image, and a segmentation/mask, there should be an opacity slider to change the opacity of each layer. There can also be an option to hide the SEG on a certain viewport.

---

🖼️ **If CT test data have multiple images (10) & last 4 image contains OVERLAY6000, if we scroll fast and reached to 10th image, it shows all overlay from last 4 slices, ideally when image rendered it should render overlay data for that slice only. Seems like issue in image overlay tool because of cache implementation? If we scroll slowly like image by image then 10th slice is showing only respected overlay**

A: _getCachedStat in OverlayTool should be fixed to use ImageIds instead of UIDS. ImageOverlayViewerTool.ts

```typescript
type imageIdOverlays = {
    // ...overlayPlaneModule
    _id: string;
    type: 'G' | 'R'; // G for Graphics, R for ROI
    color?: number[]; // Rendered color [r, g, b, a]
    dataUrl?: string; // Rendered image in Data URL expression
  }[];

interface CachedStat {
  imageIdCacheOverlays: Map<string, imageIdOverlays>;
}
```

---

**When using the threshold brush. I have a CT/NM. The segmentation is using a labelmap volume at the CT size. If I set the threshold volume to be the NM, I am having an issue because the NM is a different size of pixels and slices.** 

A: I think we should go to world if the referenced volume for threshold is not the same as the segmentation mask, and i think we have building blocks of that already, will take a look
