# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-01-18


## Q & A

Attendees: 15


### Q: We would like to touch base on this github issue. https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/issues/914

**We have a working project displaying the error, using cornerstone’s version 1.32.2 and nifty-reader-js version 0.6.6.**

**We also have a working project, copied from your heatmap example, that does not show the error. It uses cornerstone’s version 1.32.1 and nifty-reader-js version 0.6.6.**

A: Haven’t had a chance to look at this.  Very busy right now, probably won’t be able to look until February.

--- 

### Q: https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3896, I’d like to know when this bug can be fixed. Tool state is buggy with measurement tools in MPR

A: This is a known issue that is being worked on, probably late February.  There are lots of other related issues that are also being looked at.

--- 

### https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3900 - this PR can be merged? It’s checking split primary button too when toggling Hp tools.

A: The issue is that the button does not get selected when clicked/applied, and does get selected when it fails to apply.  This may change in the next couple of months as some of hte button/activation handling gets updated and improved.

--- 


### I would like to see if there is an update on the following 
* Bug where the RTSTRUCT were able to load on segment panel, but does not render (3535)
* Ability to render RTSTRUCT on a different series with same FoR but different slice thickness (unsure if there is an issue for this)
* Bug where image stack sync break after RTSTRUCT load (3849)

A: This is something that is being looked at right now.  The idea is to build a surface out of the data and then cut a segment out of that specific to the display.  This is a work in progress that will hopefully have some results that you can see shortly.

--- 

### We would like to touch base about the compressed dicom issue.

I narrowed down the failure to a single line which is about memory allocation.
I tried updating the fork but it didn't help.
I tried posting on the openjpeg group but it is still in moderation. 
I test on the codec library, the decode-only version can open the compressed DICOM successfully whereas the decode/encode version fails. 
Any ideas on how to proceed are welcome. Who can I ask for help?

A: Try increasing the initial memory for all the builds
Try looking at the memory on the overall process
Try enabling logging on all memory allocations

Either you are running out of memory or overriding it again.

---

### Q: If I want to add an event listener to listen for MouseWheelScroll + Shift even to active Viewport/canvas (in OHIF), what is the most appropriate place to do it? 
Also, I checked that the mouse scroll is not included in the MouseBindings (in Cornerstone3D) so I can’t just bind it to the tool(s).

A: Add it to mouse bindings so that there is a new “mouse wheel” binding type so that things are similar to how mouse click is handled.  Then call into the mouse wheel callback.  Please create a PR and include Bill on the review/for initial help setting this up.

### I would like to know how the SR measurements are given to OHIF to be loaded into the main image (tracking I believe), a quick summary would do. Is it only measurements created through OHIF that can use that feature? I use 3.7

A: SR has a standard way of representing line date and so on. Editing data is only possible on data that is understood in the additional details so that one understands what the text means.

--- 

### There is a display position issue. It works on the desktop browser, but it doesn’t work on tablet and mobile browsers. I will share my screen to talk about the details.

A: This looks like a copying from offscreen to on screen positioning issue.  Probably in the rendering engine.  Try adding a button, grabe the rendering engine, call the resize method on the rendering engine itself.  Then try a rendering engine render all
(may need to check the number of viewports in that rendering engine to get the right one)
cornerstone.getRenderEngines()[0].resize()
Then call the render method on the rendering engine.











