# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-05-09

## Q & A

Attendees: 9

Discussed:

Q: 📱 **White screen when trying to render huge resolution DICOMs on mobile.**

A: Probably not related to the device resolution, except as in the device resolution being low is related to not having a very capable GPU with much memory. A 4k x 3k image is 12 million pixels, which is 48 mb. Probably that is exceeding device limits in the GPU. There are a number of flags that reduce this size. You can also try useNorm16Texture, useCPURendering, preferSizeOverAccuracy (in order, one at a time). The prefer size over accuracy may have some slight errors on rendering.

---

Q: ⚙️ **Dynamically loading the OHIF config from a URL at runtime.**

A: Look at dangerouslyUseDynamicConfig The problem is that it can

The regex has to match the configuration that is put in the url, like only allow configuration that comes from my backend to make this safer. This is intended for overall configuration, not for data sources that are all fixed - for fixed data sources, use the datasources=<NAME>

https://docs.ohif.org/platform/modes/routes

Also take a look at the onConfiguration - that is used by IDC to dynamically build GCP healthcare API URLs. That is used to take parameters and convert them into the overall setup.

---

Q: 🖼️ **Expected behavior for loading monochrome1 images - inverted or not.**

A: On reset it should go back to the original. Whether the original is inverted or not is further determined by the presentation lut shape. Also, inverted in monochrome 1 means displaying MAX_PIXEL value as white and MIN_PIXEL as black, whereas not inverted means displaying MAX_PIXEL as black.

---

Q: ♻️ **Preventing reset of viewport properties when different images are loaded on the same stack viewport.**

A: One option is to split the images into separate display sets so that they are consistent within the display set.

For the zoom/pan data, the recent changes for getViewPresentation should help this, although it may not have gotten included at the right level. Once that has been merged to OHIF, if it is still an issue, could you create an issue for this?

For the window level, it should be possible to preserve that VOI as long as the basic range between images is similar. The problem currently is that a new actor is required because of differences in rendering, and that causes the reset to occur. The fix is to re-apply the view presentation.

