# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-03-07


## Q & A

Attendees: 15


---


Q: I’m working on a Threshold preview tool, based on this PR
https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/pull/534
And after recent updates functionality stopped working, here is the branch and repo
https://github.com/pavel-kaiko/cornerstone3D/tree/534-threshold-preview-tool-v2
This commit should work 8a2e4904b01a796d514fa1b8f288720f180935a4
npm run example -- labelmapThresholdPreviewTool

I’m also checking how fillCircle is implemented and I think that a way of implementation is not efficient. Maybe you can advise on how to do it properly. We need this feature, and I’m ready to  dedicate more time.
I see that you use strategies and also most interesting is that you have a preview option in the strategy, which is very important for visualization.

A: Preview is on the brush itself

https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/labelmapsegmentationdynamicthreshold

Use brush tool
Have a new strategy called fillCube
Add the threshold composition
Add the preview composition

Use webworkers for thresholding 

Turn off island removal in the composition (just dont include it)
Can call the preview call directly to update the preview

Try using plane at a time for performance

--- 

Q: Where is the place I can find the studylist meta is parsed, so that I can parse my customized metadata sent from my own dicomweb server?

A: This is in the worklist - need to move that somewhere proper eventually - take a look at the data source studies search - data source wrapper getData - worklist has a child that does the query.
Look mre details in the file DicomWenDataSource/index.js and qido.js.

--- 

Q: Am trying to load SR which is created by another tool or algorithm which follows the TID:1500. But I am not able to load SR Directly. I have Read in DOCS that the OHIF viewer also follows the TID: 1500.

A: Can you show it in the SR viewport, or does it not load there either?
Polyline display - being worked on this week.  There is a bug in it right now.  
Could you provide an example SR that we can look at?  Create an issue in github and attach the SR there (anonymized data only)

--- 

Q: Clarifying question about the image loading algorithm (for multiple viewports). What are you improving in the next few months?

A: It looks like the prefetch works for one viewport.  Seems to break fairly quickly for multiple viewports.
This is looking to be addressed in the next while.
Expect when one jumps to the middle of the viewport, that the viewport that got jumped to starts loading
Isn’t a good way to cancel ongoing requests.  Need to control how many requests are allowed to be initiated concurrently.
Edit the concurrent requests setting in OHIF - values of around 10-20 work well

--- 

Q: I have a few questions for this week:
We are seeing an issue with select/unselect fill and outline for segmentations that only seems to work if we loaded segmentations first but if we do not load a segmentation and just create new segmentations the fill and outline do not operate correctly.  Any suggestions to resolve?


A: Please create an issue for us to look at this

--- 

Q: On Threshold Brush in a viewport with CT and NM fused, how can I define which volume to operate on?

A: Should be able to define  a volumeId in the configuration in a second copy - if that isn’t working in the brush tool, should be possible to add it to the brush tool.
Looks like it isn’t using that right now.  Change createEditData to have some way to choose the edit data.

--- 

Q: The data probe tool, is there a way to make it show N/A when outside the volume, it currently shows 0?

A: There is preventHandleOutsideImage - which shows nothing once you are outside

---

Q: When do you expect multiple layouts to be available?


A: End of next week - revamping the toolbar right now, going fairly well.
Expanding the toolbar to reevaluate the length tool

--- 

Q: We have NM datasets with negative slice thickness but they seem to load in the opposite direction to the CT, how can we resolve?

A: Maybe we should do slice thickness - can you create a PR and a data set to test with?

packages/core/src/utilities/generateVolumePropsFromImageIds.ts

---

Q: `cameraSync` sometimes causes unexpected bugs when using volume viewports.
Go to series 1
Applied custom hanging protocol(1x2 layout, and 2 viewports are volume viewports, and cameraSync is used in hanging protocol configuration)
Drag series 2, it’s working
Drag back in series 1, it’s loaded but super zoomed in

A: Please create a bug report with some screenshots
Try resetting camera for now

--- 

Q: We recently deployed the OHIF Viewer and the associated DICOM service on our Azure instance. For some reason there is a bug with saving annotations. We are able to load the dicom images fine and draw the annotations. But when we reopen the image the annotations are gone. Is that expected? Where are the annotations saved? Any thoughts on what might be going on?

A: The save annotation saves a DICOM SR to your server.  When you reload, do you see a new SR series created?  Is there a cache issue that prevents the SR being shown?
Is the SR actually getting stored?

---

Q: How do I know the current viewport is a zoom-ed one (that is, a user has double clicked a viewport in a multi-grid viewing environment)?


A: There is a bug in that if you go to the next stage - won’t double click out of the old one.
Please file a defect about this
Who: Pablo

--- 

Q: I won’t be able to stay. But the nifti volume loader does not render on mobile devices, because the GPU loading fails and the fallback CPU loading does not work on volumes.

We saw that there is a issue on vtk that solved our issue locally, but I think Cornerstone can get ahead of this problem by always sending Arrays with data type Int16?

(I will check the slack channel for the answer, sorry about that). Thanks for the help!

A: Will look through that to see what is going on

