# OHIF Office Hours Notes 204-02-29


## Q & A

Attendees: 17


---

Q: I've noticed the VOI synchronizer works for the same volume across viewports (under the same renderingEngine) but not for different volumes, despite effective scrolling sync. Is this intended? Any advice on getting the window level sync to work?

A: Seems like you are right, we are setting `.setProperties(voi, volumeId)` which makes 
it not work, a better approach should be to detect only there is one 
volume on the viewport and then set the properties for all (not providing the volumeId)

---

Q: How can I get the slice index using the mouse scrolling tool so that I can display it in the viewport? Also, how can I add a scrolling bar and connect it to the mouse scrolling? Basically, how can I get more out of the scrolling tool in cornerstone? 

A: You can check out how OHIF handles such use case in 

extensions/cornerstone/src/Viewport/Overlays/ViewportImageScrollbar.tsx

---

Q: I Am having an issue while developing trying to render an image testing with my Iphone SE IOS 17.1. 

Currently everything works well if emulating different phones from chrome
It works fine from the laptop
When testing from a forwarded port or ngrok tunnel on my iphone the image loads, based on the loading progress, i am able to use tooling (windowing, but no image is actually showing at any point).

Using: cornerstoneNiftiImageVolumeLoader


A: seems like iOS is adding a lot of webGL bugs and issues recently. Maybe 
we should connect together and see how to debug this.


---

Q: How to know if all images are rendered on all viewports. Are there any events? For example, ALL_IAMGES_RENDERED?


A: Maybe you can do the following ?

Const [{ viewports} ] = viewportGridService.getState()
Const numViewports = viewports.length

VIEWPORT_DATA_CHANGED
Which is fired on cornerstoneViewportService 

Count each time you hit this until numViewports are reached

---


Q: Is it possible to replicate cornerstone 3d load and rendering speed with cs2d in ohif?

A: Not really, cornerstone 3d is a different beast.

--------------

Q: I think I might have asked this before but I wanted to correctly document this time the segmentation support in ohif.

Can please give me checklist if I want to use the OHIF View for my react website?
Do I need to setup OHIF viewer backend to store data in server?
What is the process for changing the data source of the viewer?
I have tried to integrate iframe it works with the sample zip (https://docs.ohif.org/deployment/iframe) file given in the doc but when I make my own build it not working.

A: OHIF is a front-end application and does not have back-end. You can take a look 
at our data source docs to see how to change the data source. 

https://docs.ohif.org/configuration/dataSources/introduction

---


Q: Could you spend a moment on the green overlay for some compressed ultrasounds. I have implemented / linked PR 829 from Cornerstone3d and it still hasn’t alleviated the issue. Is there anything I can do aside from decompressing first before send the pixel blob back?  

A: Let me debug this after you provide the data. 

---


Q: Is it possible to utilize OHIF directly as a React component? Is this your main focus? If I decide to proceed with it, is it feasible, and are there any additional steps or requirements I should be aware of?

If you don’t want worklist you should remove the following from the source code 

A: you can change the follwoing file 

platform/app/src/routes/index.tsx

and remove 

const WorkListRoute = {
    path: '/',
    children: DataSourceWrapper,
    private: true,
    props: { children: WorkList, servicesManager, extensionManager },
  };


--- 

Q: How to subscribe to events that user has double-clicked an viewport (to enlarge it)?

A: check out here 
packages/tools/examples/doubleClickWithStackAnnotationTools/index.ts

viewport.element.addEventListener(‘dbClick’, () => {})

--- 

Q: Can I use a Stack Viewport in one of my MPR viewports, so that the images in that viewport does not be resampled?

A: Not unfortunately, you can’t use stack viewports in MPR viewports.



