# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-04-04


## Q & A

Attendees: 11

Q: Question to Bill, for overlay 6000 in DICOMWebSCP is not working but with mkDicomWeb overlay 6000 data is profile correctly. Can you please elaborate more on solution to this problem. 

A: The problem is that the SCP version is parse streaming the response, and doesn’t have the underlying raw data. There are some performance issues with the way it setups right now with big files. The solution short term is by making sure data is written out to appropriate files. Longer term we should fix it, store the files as they are received in a temp folder, and run mkDICOMWeb create as files as opposed to stream. 

The DICOMWebSCP misses some metadata apparently currently.

--- 

Q: What is this custom metadata (scalingModule) used for? In PET images, is this value mandatory for TMTV mode?

A: The scaling module is used to help calculate the total metabolic tumor volume to help calculate the SUV peak values.  The reason is that the PET series need to have the SUV values scaled to a corrected value. (that is, pixel values be attenuation corrected)  For straight viewing, you don’t need it, just the computation tools need it.
The correction/scaling happens in decodeImageFrame

---

Q: How can I load a cached volume into a viewport?

const viewportDataChanged = ({viewportData, viewportId}) => {
      const cur_volumeId = viewportData.data[0].volumeId;

      const cached_volumes = cs.cache.getVolumes();
      var cur_volumeIndex = 0;
      // How can I load volume index 1 to another viewport?
      ????
}


A: Use the right ids for the setDisplaySetsForViewport - these should be volumeId (BW: Isn’t this displaySet UID - yes, for volumes, volumeId===displaySetUID)

viewportGridService.setDisplaySetsForViewport

--- 

Q: Do I have to use measurement Service to add annotation ?

A: You should be able to use the CS3D functions to add the underlying element.  That should then add it to the OHIF measurement service via the standard listeners.
annotation.state.addAnnotation(annotation, <element or frame of reference UID>)
TODO - create an example CS3D page showing how to add annotations manually using the JSON format.

 // get your annotations already object in the form of Annotation Type in cs3d
 // CornerstoneTools.annotation.state.addAnnotation(annotation, element);

extensions/cornerstone/src/initMeasurementService.js
measurementservice.annotationToMeasurement
extensions/cornerstone/src/utils/measurementServiceMappings/Length.ts

--- 

Q: In the configuration function, it indicates that one can register extensions/modes dynamically, but that requires having access to CS3D and/or ohif packages in order to implement them.  How does one load a mode/extension dynamically when the context isn’t available to load separately?


A: Module Federation might be a solution to this problem …

---

Q: How to have CINE play by automatically

A: we should have a proper way to do this in the hanging protocol, but just a proof of concept would be like this 


  viewportGridService.subscribe(viewportGridService.EVENTS.VIEWPORTS_READY, evt => {
    const viewportId = viewportGridService.getActiveViewportId();
    const { element } = cornerstoneViewportService.getCornerstoneViewport(viewportId);
    commandsManager.run('toggleCine');
    setTimeout(() => {
      servicesManager.services.cineService.playClip(element, {});
    }, 500);
  });

---

Q: Want to use MPR, getting publicAPI.updateLabelOutlineThicknessTexture is not a function

A: Go to your package json file and update the “@kitware/vtk.js” and change the “27.3.1” to at least “29.3.0”
Then yarn install –force



