# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-04-11


## Q & A

Attendees: 12

Discussed:

Q: ðŸ’» **Open-sourcing a feature implemented for a customer in the OHIF Viewers.**

A: This has been implemented for a customer who has agreed to open source it in December

---

Q: ðŸ”Œ **Querying data from different endpoints for the same study in a browser session in OHIF.**

A: There is a "merge" configuration in data sources so that you can query data sources. This is already implemented and merged in this PR https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3788

---

Q: ðŸ”€ **Swapping viewports while preserving presentation states using viewportGridService in OHIF.**

A: Using the viewport grid service as suggested earlier, everything works except one's viewport presentation state is not correct. Alireza will look at the code.

---

Q: ðŸ” **Rendering volume slices independent of adjacent slices when the camera direction is the same as the image orientation in OHIF.**

A: Test to see that the window level before/after, test that the slab thickness isn't too thick and that the center of the focal point is the center of the image being displayed. Try displaying the stack viewport on the same image at the same time and see if you get the same results. Ensure your @cornerstonejs version is recent >=1.70  Search package.json for "@cornerstonejs/.*": ".*" Try updating the center image LAST - ensure that hte updates for the other two planes do NOT change the center image values Try throttling the slider so you only update when the last item has changed or some length has been reached.

---

Q: ðŸ“‚ **Support for loading ITK file format (or NIFTI/NRRD) in OHIF and Cornerstone.**

A: What is ITK format? Not really used in a standard way - should be nifti (.nrrd) or DICOM Nifti support is being added as .nrd loading support.

---
