# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-02-22


## Q & A

Attendees: 9


---

Q: Is there any solution to change mode dynamically on the viewer? I don’t want to use extra routing or query parameters.

A: You can use useNavigate
https://reactrouter.com/en/main/hooks/use-navigate

services.stateSyncService.state.lutPresentationStore

---

Q: We are noticing some performance issues when opening multiple studies (start at worklist, open study A, go back, open study B, go back, open study C). Wondering if there is some cleanup that’s not happening that’s known that’s causing image loading to slow down?

A: Looking against local version
Maximize the viewports and scroll through to see some images
Not immediately seeing anything in Edge (on large machine)
Run profiler and compare memory profile to see if there is a lot of memory being left behind


We cancel outstanding requests
onModeExit: (): void => {
   // Empty out the image load and retrieval pools to prevent memory leaks
   // on the mode exits
   Object.values(cs3DEnums.RequestType).forEach(type => {
     imageLoadPoolManager.clearRequestStack(type);
     imageRetrievalPoolManager.clearRequestStack(type);
   });


   enabledElementReset();
 },




Change the limits below and see if it makes difference so that we can have more info for debugging

extensions/cornerstone/src/init.tsx
 imageLoadPoolManager.maxNumRequests = {
   interaction: appConfig?.maxNumRequests?.interaction || 100,
   thumbnail: appConfig?.maxNumRequests?.thumbnail || 75,
   prefetch: appConfig?.maxNumRequests?.prefetch || 10,
 };



---

Q: Wondering what the statuses/timelines are for grid layout reset (think I saw this PR but some issue) on expansion and also the whole multimonitor effort?

A: multi monitor PR here https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/3872 is a basic support for launching a worklist and viewer on configured/multiple monitors

Eventually it will have support for communication of state/sync update between monitors


Multi monitor support 
Enhanced study browser in the left panel 
Showing priors
More modern design

---

Q:  What event or callback function should I use to detect a new series is dragged into a viewport? CORNERSTONE_IMAGE_VOLUME_MODIFIED event seems does not work. Should I overwrite onThumbnailDblClicked() function?

A: What do you want to do?  Want to run a customize command for the viewport when a new series is displayed.  You can look at viewport data changed (cornerstone event).  There are also events from viewport grid provider (OHIF side)
Is it something that could be done at display set setup time?  

Can look at IMAGE_VOLUME_LOADING_COMPLETED

Grab viewportGridService from services manager and listen to GRID_STATE_CHANGED
Which is fired before the displayset is loaded

this._broadcastEvent(ViewportGridService.EVENTS.GRID_STATE_CHANGED, {
     state,
     viewports,
   });

For after loaded, you can use eventTarget.addEventListener(VOLUME_LOADED)

--- 

Q: How to set viewport's viewPlaneNormal, viewup, and slabThickness properties? It seems the viewports object gotten from the following two methods have different properties:
	const { viewports, activeViewportId } = viewportGridService.getState(); 
	viewport = renderingEngine.getViewport(viewportId);

Which one should I use?

A: You need to apply the properties on the viewport.setCamera(...)
However, the values are heavily dependent on the image data being shown. 
By default, the slabThickness will be very thin, with slab positions being the center of each image plane.
Slab thickness is for rendering, probably not something you want to set
What is actually desired is to create a reslice that has the same destination volume size
Take a look at the volume cache to see what your caches look like.



