# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-03-14


## Q & A

Attendees: 10



Q: Is PR modality supported in ohif?

A: Not yet, it needs to get converted to internal objects. The display sides (apis for display portion etc., annotations etc.) is there, but the reading is not yet supported. 

In a DICOM PR it should not contain the other modalities (images), and only PR referencing other series. 

Github issue for OHIF viewers - with anonymized data

--- 

Q: Could you please explain in more detail the relationship between SegmentationId and VolumeId? Here, they’re used interchangeably: https://www.cornerstonejs.org/docs/concepts/cornerstone-tools/segmentation/segmentation-display/ 

A: This looks like volume stackmentations.  There are two ids, one that identify the segmentation, and one that identifies the data associated with it as a set of images.  They can be the same for volume segmentations, but don’t have to be.  For stack segmentations, there is no volume id, but there is a segmentation id, and then a set of image id’s for the segmentation images.

---

Q: I’m investigating how to trigger the Segmentation preview functionality manually.
Example:
https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/labelmapsegmentationdynamicthreshold
How can we trigger preview without mouse hover, for example, for the center of the 1st viewport?

A: previewCallback and the preview in the composition folder you need to tdebug

---

Q: May I ask you to explain why did you make the decision to switch from redux to sub/pro services in OHIF? ​​https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/blob/master/platform/docs/docs/platform/services/data/index.md 

We’re currently working on our own viewer based on Cornerstone3D, and are thinking of leveraging MobX stores for Cornerstone-related data across the application. Therefore, we would be very thankful to know more on why you decided to switch from the redux approach to services.

Thank you!

A: 
the main motivator is that we want to be able to have extensions which can add their own stateful services as necessary. Previously, @ohif/core was full of actions / reducers / etc and this was a bit more complicated to plug into from third party extensions. It just felt a bit weird the way that the extensions would connect and add their own mapStateToProps, etc. This model has extensions providing services which can provide their own API inside the viewer and are accessible anywhere via the service manager. We would like to move towards TypeScript so the services and their APIs are typed and we release / version them properly for extension authors that depend on them.

--- 

Q: How can I adjust the width of the Study List panel? I want to add more columns to it.

A: Right now that isn’t easy to do in OHIF.  You probably need to fork the code for WorkList
Look at the StudyListTableRow - adjust the whole width.  You will have to adjust the CSS


--- 

Q: Cornerstone3D version 1.54.0 seems to have broken node_modules when testing with Jest:
https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/compare/v1.53.0...v1.54.0 


A: You need to enable wasm for jest - probably 
test: /\.wasm/,
type:’asset/resource’,

That version is from karma, you probably need to look at the same bit in the jest configuration side.


--- 

Q: Do I have to adjust the slabThickness in order to show my Volume (in one of the 3 orientations, which aligns with the original DICOM images) exactly the same as that in other Stack-based DICOM viewers?

A: You shouldnt be touching the slab thickness for this.    You have to use the “acquisition” orientation.

--- 

Q: TMTV with CT/PT, loading as volumes, automatically orders the instances of the PT to be synced with the CT. Loading the CT/PT in Basic Viewer as stacks, in two panels and use Image Slice Sync, the scrollbars sync in opposite direction instead of reordering the slices of the PT. Is it possible to get this behavior in TMTV?

A: In the stack mode, images show an instance number, but in the volume, the values are out of sync.  One option is to show the image instance number when the display orientation is acquisition (typically axial).  That could be added a bug report - please add an example set of DICOM images that is anonymized for us to test with.
The sorting happens in sortImageIdsAndGetSpacing

---

Q: Could you please help me better understand the reasoning behind the one-to-one relationship between viewports and tool groups in Cornerstone3D? Why would it be undesirable to share a ToolGroup between them? 

We’re currently working on a viewer mode which allows the user to see 2 volumes in 3 projections on the same screen for easier comparison and annotation, so sharing a ToolGroup between the 2 axial viewports would be beneficial for us. 

Thank you!
https://www.cornerstonejs.org/docs/concepts/cornerstone-tools/toolGroups 

A: Toolgroups have multiple viewports associated with them.  Please note in an issue where the documentation says that it is 1-1 so we can fix that.





