# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-05-30

## Q & A

Attendees: 16

Discussed:
📅 **I want to know the timeline for address this. Thanks. Loading an SR, after loading a Seg, will cause OHIF to become unresponsive (3.9.14) https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/4159**

A: The problem is that the SR viewport is a special state/instance which is a preview viewport. When that has a SEG on it, it doesn't show correctly.

Alireza wil try a small fix to fix the exception.

---

📊 **In OHIF study list page, every filtering would trigger a request to be sent to the backend to re-fetch all studies. How can I change that to filter only at the client (local) side, without sending any request to the backend to re-fetch studies?**

A: The problem with not requerying is that the initial query in general does not have all results, and if you change the query to a different one, you can't assume you have any of the correct results.

What you should consider is implementing a client side filter that works on the queried results client side all the time - that search can be for a set of words that works on a per-study row result and simply queries the entire string result. Because it is always client side, you know you never have to requery when the filter changes - but you would always requery on changing the query parameters, since you can't know that you don't need a new query there.

Also, there had been a setting in static dicomweb client code that assumes the study query is always a full/complete result and never required. That will then only query once at startup, and will not query a subsequent time. The change would be around line 106 of StaticWadoClient, and would simply store the initial query result and would only refresh it after a certain interval.

---

🔲 **I want to implement a layout grid for each instance, let say we have 16 layers, and the grid is 4, each grid cell will be i, i + 1, i + 2, i + 3,... When I scroll, i will be increased by 4. Do you have any suggestion for me to implement this? (I forked the project and maintaining myself)**

A: You need to modify the following file
extensions/default/src/getSopClassHandlerModule.js

To add your custom displaySet logic, to chop the instances into every 4, in near future we are expanding this capability to enable you to inject your custom functions without forking

---

🖥️ **I have made the setup on arm64 I am getting 400 metadata call when calling metadata, in windows os this call just don't exist.**

A: please create an issue on gituhb with more details

---

🐞 **Do you have any idea about this issue? https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/4114 I used script dicom-json-generator.js to generate the JSON file**

A: Please put an anonymized copy in the above issue and we will look at it.  
It is possible the dicom-json-generator.js doesn't work correctly for multiframe.

---

📂 **upload folder is not working in ohif itself even after following the documentation.**

A: Seems to be working against the orthanc local example. You need the dicomUpload: true in the datasource that you are uploading to. We ran with a local example on orthanc 1.12.3 and it was uploaded.

https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/zfy3fqwt7zz60zqyrdb69/Archive-2.zip?rlkey=r7xi9md9snguta7ar70c7wbsd&dl=0 

---

📏 **How can I add measurements in same dicom file and also I want to add private tag in dicom file and want to save that in the same dicom file.**

A: By default, all measurements for a single study will be stored in to a single file. If you mean that the data should be burned in, you would need an external tool for that right now.

For additional DICOM findings you can check out here 

https://github.com/RadicalImaging/OHIFExtensionsAndModes/tree/main/ohif-configurable/findings-mode

Run the viewer with test-mode, it will let you see how you can add these two extra information for a measurement in SR

Sites: Where is the location

Finding: single code value , a disease finding in general

---

🔳 **How to add bounding box/(RectangleROI) manually like I want to integrate my ai model which gives rectangle co-ordinates as input.**

A: See cornerstonejs.org examples dynamically add annotation

https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/dynamicallyaddannotations

---

💾 **I am using viewer via dicom json, and I want to save measurement (create report), how I can implement my backend to support that? Will it update the dicom file or the measurement will be stored separately? (I am not familiar with dicom files and I am new to this domain)**

A: There is an ongoing PR to allow the JSON files to just have UIDs so it would then just need the DICOM files in the SR format.

YOu may need to invalidate the JSON file so it can be uploaded/downloaded to allow recreating and refreshing the JSON If it is served with caching disabled, then a simple browser refresh will invalidate it.

You will need to modify/implement store inside extensions/default/src/DicomJSONDataSource/index.js
To take the dataset that you are provided and convert it into a JSON file.
  
The store in store: dicom: will need to be server specific for you and write to your files.
