# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-04-18

## Q & A

Attendees: 17

Discussed:

Q: 🔄 **RTSTRUCT still unable to render consistently in OHIF 3.8.**

A: It looks like 3.8 will be released end of week. The rtstruct fix is not there yet, but that is planned to be fixed right after 3.8 is released. So it will be in 3.9. 2d only for 3.9, with 3d rendering later (not in 3.9 likely). 3d means rendering rtstruct in MPR.

---

Q: 📐 **Adding a rectangle annotation (ROI) programmatically.**

A: For metadata, there is a single call on viewport that you should call: viewport.getViewReference(). Real issue is figuring out the object to pass to addAnnotations. Use the example in the tool type you are looking at - RectangleTool for this case. The selector can generally be the element that contains the viewport of instance. Otherwise it can be the frame of reference from the getViewReference() call.

For the 3d points, the ordering is defined by the RectangleROITool. You can also look at the adapters for Rectangle for seeing how they are ordered. You probably have canvas coordinates, these can be transformed into world coordinates using the viewport canvas to world. If you have index coordinates instead, the image data (getDefaultImageData) to convert index coordinates to world coordinates - imageToWorldCoords is another function that you can use for this outside of viewports. Or, you can see https://slicer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/coordinate_systems.html for how to control/set the world coordinates.

Color is controlled by the tool style. This is a hierarchy of values are per annotationUID, per viewport, per toolGroup and global per toolName. Suggest having a key that sets the style, for example, the finding or findingSite so that changing that value changes the underlying style.

If you want to contribute back, suggest one for showing the tool style and a second one for rehydrating the rectangle.

---

Q: 🖥️ **Roadmap for extension support for multi-monitors and PWA compatibility.**

A: Yes it is being worked on, but has been very slow. Plan is to add this late this year. PWA will be tested, but isn't a focus of this.

---

Q: 📝 **Problem with decoding text in DICOM meta tags in OHIF if they are not written in Latin characters.**

A: Open the downloaded SEG file into the dicom parser dump with data dictionary:

The problem is specificCharacterSet is not set to UTF8. This should be set to 'ISO_IR 192' which is the value for UTF-8

dataset.SpecificCharacterSet = 'ISO_IR 192';
packages/adapters/src/adapters/Cornerstone/Segmentation_4X.js

_createSegFromImages might be the place to put the specific character set
Line 229

Please submit a PR to fix this after you have fixed it.

---

Q: 📺 **Image quality of 3D viewport decreases over time when using "jump to click".**

A: This has been fixed, are you running a current version? The bug was fixed in trackballrotatetool. It has a lower resolution when dragging, but that isn't restored on mouse up correctly. Lines 52-64 - try commenting them out. Probably cleanup should be run only on drag, not on click.

---

Q: 🎨 **Plan to integrate dynamic modification of display presets, colormaps, window width, and level into the volume viewport.**

A: Used for pediatric, and want a preset for bones.
See new view in 3.8 with per-viewport controls.

Most users don't need histogram, as long as the WL can be adjusted with mouse rather than using the slider. TODO - add this to OHIF.

---

Q: 🔐 **Implementing SSO with Keycloak for OHIF/Orthanc instance.**

A: Keycloak version is about 6, and they are about 24 - is there anyone who has brought this up to date? Try joining slack - bottom of ohif.org and ask in the ohif area - Seth is using passport on nodejs light server on their side for doing the authentication. There are other users trying out the keycloak setup. We will prioritize this as well to update.

Docker gives warning that keycloak is using an old version of the manifest.

Suggest creating a PR to update this - Tobie and/or Richard
Node 22 apparently has huge performance gains for server apps.

---

Q: ⚖️ **Manually synchronizing axial viewports by relative spatial location for exams at different time points.**

A: There is a slice synchronizer that synchronizes by slice index, but you have to pre-position them. If in the same frame of reference, will auto-sync to the position.
Note the examples in viewer-dev.ohif.org using Neptune (go to all studies and drag and drop).
