# OHIF Office Hours Notes 204-02-01


## Q & A

Attendees: 10



## Q: Is it possible to visualize the ROI Threshold in the whole viewport without adding the annotation? Slicer 3D has this functionality (as an example)

From the Cornerstone 3D side, I’m using this example:
https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/rectangleroithreshold

I also tried this example, but it fits even less (preview inside of the segmentation brush with based on the value in the centre of the tool)
https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/labelmapsegmentationdynamicthreshold 
(the source data in this demo is not loading, so I used another one locally)

A: See threshold preview tool.  This is on the list ot review, but is a bit behind - has been reviewed once, needs some changes.

https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/pull/534

https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/pulls?page=2&q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen


## Q: I would like to demo this bug, because it is tricky to explain in words.

Incorrect crosshairs when 2nd series is loaded in MPR mode
https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3911

A: Crosshairs should have been disabled when exiting MPR mode.  There are a number of issues with tools which are only applicable to a given mode.

There should be an event on the hanging protocol to allow calling commands when the mode is disabled.  This should have a command to disable the crosshairs, so that it isn’t active when next one enters MPR.  Longer term, fixing the crosshairs and other buttons to be context sensitive and able to update themselves based on context would be important.

## Q:If I can share my screen, I’ll show my issue and talk a bit more, but:

I have a setup where I have a docker container running Orthanc. I am sending anatomical data from there into an automated segmentation pipeline and the results are sent back to me. Yet, when I get the results and want to view them in the OHIF-Viewer using Orthanc’s OHIF-plugin (libOrthancOHIF), the image looks broken 

A: Look at the results being returned - there was a result reported in May where the result is incorrect coming back from Orthanc.  Newer versions of orthanc plugin.  You should be able to find the orthanc datasources configuration, add the accept header from 

https://discourse.orthanc-server.org/t/orthanc-convert-ybr-to-rgb-but-does-not-change-metadata/3533


## Q: How do I add/remove some buttons from/to the OHIF view toolbar?
    
A: See the TMTV mode file (modes/tmtv/src/index…)  That has examples of different buttons.
Then in longitudinal mode, you can look at toolbarButtons which has the definitions of tools and the commands which are run as part of clicking on that button.  You can add new buttons there.   

modes/tmtv/src/toolbarButtons.js

See rotate right for an example action


## How do I set a 3x2 grid layout all the time by configuration or programming in OHIF?

A: Define a Hanging Protcol (HP), in basic-test-mode

extensions/default/src/hpMNGrid.ts
https://docs.ohif.org/platform/extensions/modules/hpmodule/ 
You can test your hanging protocol by manually adding it to the URL, for example:
https://viewer.ohif.org/viewer?StudyInstanceUIDs=1.2.826.0.1.3680043.8.498.11387662677066579919319049302075478647&hangingProtocolId=@ohif/mnGrid

Search for getHangingProtocolMOdule in the code, and that will give you several examples of hanging protocols.  The mnGrid one referenced above is probably a good one to start with as it can fairly easily be extended to a 3x2 grid.
Who: Xiaojiang
     3. How do  I access each viewport, or a group of MPR viewports, programmatically in OHIF (for example, load a volume, change pixels)?

A: Look into CornerstoneViewportService.  This has lots of examples of how to access viewports.  However, you probably don’t need that for the basic layout.
For matching, take a look at the get hanging protocol module, in the display set selectors.  That allows choosing which images you are looking for.

https://docs.ohif.org/platform/services/data/HangingProtocolService


## Q: In the next major version of OHIF Viewer, is there any plan to use Vue instead of React? Vue is much easier to use and much less gotcha than React.

A: There isn’t any plan to change the front end framework.  Some people have run a vue flavor of OHIF.  There isn’t a compelling reason to switch right now, and it would need to be funded.  Most people seem to want more tools like registration, contour segmentation etc rather than tools.

The next major version of OHIF will likely focus on customizeability - it is hard to do that.  The next major version is looking to be several years away (4.x versions)  However, there are ongoing release versions (3.x versions).

See the OHIF roadmap https://ohif.org/roadmap/ 
We are currently looking for at least one more person to help with this.  
The same people working on OHIF also are working on Cornerstone, so it depends on where the focus is as to which one gets love.

