# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-03-21


## Q & A

Attendees: 12




Q: If I want to add a button to the viewer that swaps two viewports, including the display sets and the presentation states, what’s the simplest way to do that? I’ve tried with viewportGridService.setDisplaySetsForViewports, but the presentation doesn’t change. But when I use cornerstoneViewportService.setViewportData, the display set data doesn’t change.

A: Create a hanging protocol with two stages, swap to the second stage, and swap the viewports in the stage. 

Or the ViewportGridService.getState() and then swap and set() again. 

---

Q: I want to share my screen and want to discuss about the behavior and needs quick info whats am doing wrong

A: Measurements not showing were fixed on Monday.

---

Q: How to control measurements in stack and volume viewports together?
At the moment, the measurements panel is not updated correctly when we manipulate the measurements(created in stack viewports) on volume viewports and vice versa.
I think it's because measurement cachedStats are stored in a map by some string keys.

A: Take a look at the measurement mapper.  The mapper gets called to create/update an annotation, there is probably a bug/feature that hasn’t gotten implemented.

extensions/cornerstone/src/utils/measurementServiceMappings/Length.ts
extensions/cornerstone/src/initMeasurementService.js

--- 

Q: What about the defect https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3986

A: Agreed, this looks like an issue.  Seems to be caused by updating the viewports and having synchronization on at the same time causing the getzoom/pan calls to return odd values, which get reapplied when the view finishes rendering.

---

Q: We want to make the rectangleROIStartEndThreshold work on other than acquisition planes. The issue is that we need to get the start and end slices for the ROI when it's not drawn in the acquisition plane. I am open to any idea you may have.

(https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D/pull/1128)


A: Check that the view plane normal in INDEX coordinates has one value !==0, and use the other two coordinates as your index coordinates.  That will work for axial and -axial when the acquisition plane is either axial or -axial.  It will also work for rotated views.



