# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-02-15


## Q & A

Attendees: 10


---
Q: When is 3.8.0 planned to be released? Will the cornerstone3d also be updated in that release?

A: Probably some time in March 

---
Q: I have a very simple question. It looks like release time is coming, if you already have some dates in mind when can we expect version 3.8.0? Thanks 

A: Master/main are the OHIF/CS3D branches that are currently being worked on.  Those are ahead of the released versions, but the creation of a new version only occurs when the changes are stable.
The CS3D branch right now is incompatible with OHIF right now due to some interface changes and additions.  Those are major features, but will take a while to stabilize.
Once they are stable AND OHIF is compatible with the updated CS3D (not necessarily using it all, but compatible), then it should be time to release a version.
Will have to push to beta first, then ensure that one is fully stable, then push to a new version.

---
Q: In getHangingProtocolModule.js, the relationship between viewports and displaysets are predefined. How can I define 2 viewports, with 1st one having a displayset defined, while 2nd one having no displayset, and assigned it later? 

A: Just assign a display set that doesn’t match anything - eg series requirement seriesInstanceUID is not defined (which shouldn’t happen)

Remove the image loading strategy, particularly on the SEG part

--- 
Q: How can I create the 2nd viewport's volume's after 1st one's volume is loaded? Where can I write a callback function for volume-loaded event?

A: There is a CS3D event.  In OHIF you can access the CS3D events.  In an extension, the preRegistration method, you can add event listeners by importing from CS3D eventTarget  See cornerstone extension in OHIF for examples.  You want to hook onto eventTarget and the IMAGE_VOLUME_LOADING_COMPLETED event.  (BaseStreamingVolume…. Has an example)

---

Q: I have a problem running the OHIF viewer with nginx and the solution explained here https://docs.ohif.org/deployment/nginx--image-archive. I can access /pacs but not the OHIF viewer itself. The goal is to deploy the viewer in some server that the internal people in a lab can access it, so is there any best approach for deployment on a server in small scale with 2-3 users viewing it

A: Trying to start this to see what is going on
Seems to run fine on the docker instance following the standard recipe.  Your config might be different.  Try pulling the master to see.


---

Q:Is it possible to integrate viewer for our react website and with our own data. If yes, where can I find documentation for step by step integration in react?


A: See the documentation on ohif.org and on reactjs websites for how to include components.
It is also easy to include OHIF as a straight iframe
Primary goal is to prevent users from accessing data unless they have logged in through the top level account.
See the OpenID recipes in OHIF for how to protect your website.
Please try to find out what is going wrong, with a good description so that we can help you - hard to tell right now.  Try the static iframe build with open id and see if that works for you as a starting point.

https://docs.ohif.org/deployment/iframe 
https://docs.ohif.org/deployment/ 

