# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-07-20

## Q & A

Attendees: 9

Discussed:



🔄 **I want to the convert the ijk coordinates i.e. { "x1": 417, "x2": 802, "y1": 1207, "y2": 1625 } these are the ones (top, left)(bottom, right) I am getting from my models to lps i.e. used by ohif viewer . How can I convert that? Which algorithm do you guys use to make this conversion? Also, I want to add a bounding box both dynamically as well as manually. How can I configure that?**

A: There are utilities in CS3D - see imageToWorldCoords. It accepts the image id and image coordinates, and returns LPS. See the docs how to dynamically load a measurement, or the example "Dynamically Add Annotations"

packages/core/src/utilities/imageToWorldCoords.ts

cornerstoneTools.utilities.annotationHydration(viewport, 'Length', [
    start as Types.Point3,
    end as Types.Point3,
]);

If you want this for an arbitrary camera, there are transforms in gl-matrix which deal with camera positions transforming them into other coordinate systems.

---

🗂️ **I want to understand hanging protocols for more than one study - we have a clinical trial with up to 5 timepoints. I want to display all of the FLAIRs at once, then all of the T2s &etc. Will they sync scrolling or do I need to change the Frame Of Reference UIDs & etc.**

A: You need to add all the studies to the URL right now.
The intent is to be able to add/select a set of "priors" from either the worklist or by looking in the all studies list and adding one as a prior to hang with.

A: For the same frame of reference, they will auto synchronize the position. For image slice syncing, it just uses the starting position. You can manually add a new parameter in the options for the sync callback and then use that.

extensions/cornerstone/src/utils/imageSliceSync/toggleImageSliceSync.ts
packages/tools/src/synchronizers/callbacks/imageSliceSyncCallback.ts
packages/core/src/utilities/calculateViewportsSpatialRegistration.ts

---

🐞 **Can you briefly discuss the work done on bug 4082 … I see it's been "fixed" in dev-await-release and that I need to update the cornerstone… I was wondering if I need to update to 3.8.2 cornerstone3D and then rebuild to test? If not which branch should I pull from cornerstone3D**

A: Yes, if you pull in 3.8.2 it has the fix in it. It is also in CS3D and vtk separately.
The DICOM standard says if you have a compressed format you need to take the output of the compressor as the definitive mapping of Photometric interpretation and size of image etc. 

One piece is the compressed data and another piece is metadata. The problem in servers is that the uncompressed data doesn't agree with metadata so we have to look at the length of data (pixelData) to guess the correct phonetic.

But for compressed formats (jpeg, j2k, etc) that have the photometric in the compressed data, it is permitted in the standard that the embedded photometric is different from the metadata. For some compressed formats like jpeg, there is an actual jfif header that is ybr full 422 and the actual decompression converts that to RGB, so that it knows what is the internal format and what it should produce. 

Orthanc has an additional problem when you request uncompressed images from orthanc something that is stored as a compressed color image, it uses a decompressor which produces RGB and dumps the raw result as the "uncompressed" image. Uncompressed (and RLE) images do not contain the actual photometric interpretation, so CS3D added some guesses to figure out if the uncompressed data is RGB. This works for YBR_FULL_422 and YBR_FULL_420 because the length of the uncompressed data is different. However, it does not work for YBR_FULL or for RGB images in by-plane format.

:: When I ohif calls to our server we simply send down the compressed dicom from the disk. We don't make a call to our dicomserver specifically. Just read from the disk . This takes dgate out of the equation in this case. The raw dicom tags show YBR_FULL only . Are you saying the current fix won't address that or ?

As long as you know you are decompressing it is fine. You have to decompress in OHIF to render, and that is where you know.

We don't decompress at all. Just send the raw compressed dicom to ohif.
Ok. so after sending to ohif i… ohif decompresses. Correct?

Test in createIm thanks

packages/dicomImageLoader/src/imageLoader/createImage.ts

---

🤖 **Has anyone integrated Total Segmentator into OHIF?**


A:

You can take a look at the MONAI and how it is integrated with OHIF. It is a good example of how to integrate an ai model and they have a lot of out of the box models.

https://ohif.org/modes/monai
