# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-03-28


## Q & A

Attendees: 11



Q: DICOMWeb - Static-Wado - Support for Overlay 6000.While doing dicomwebscp, in series metadata I can't see overlay 6000 tag at all, I am using testdata which is attached into this bug (let's not confuse as bug was raised against Viewer - When we run Viewer against local data source OHIF is rendering overlay 6000 correctly - but when I test E2E with DICOMWeb it is not display - Reason is DICOMWeb series metadata call I do not see any overlay 6000 tag)

A: Our test data seems to work fine

Testdata : https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/3599 (edited) 


https://github.com/OHIF/viewer-testdata
https://github.com/OHIF/viewer-testdata/tree/master/dcm/overlay

extensions/cornerstone/src/tools/ImageOverlayViewerTool.tsx


---
Q: Does OHIF support BasicTextSR? I have seen Enhance SR on ohif.viewer.org & it’s rendering fine. Our Testdata is Basic Text SR & it’s not rendering & giving pop-up notification.

Sop Class UID : "1.2.840.10008.5.1.4.1.1.88.11"


A: There isn’t a viewport/display capability for basic test sr.  A sop class handler and viewer for that.  It would need a viewer to be added/rendering the DICOM.

---

Q: CORS issue with ‘bulkdataURI’ method in ‘DicomWebDataSource’ when using OPTIONS request method. GET request works fine.
Cloudfront setting has OPTIONS method enabled & S3 does not allow ‘OPTIONS’ method.
What additional settings need to be configured to get rid of 403 error when using  OPTIONS ?

A: Send some configuration settings in slack as a private message.
S3 is supposed to send those responses automatically - the configuration is in the s3 bucket in the ‘cors’ properties setting.  I believe you need ‘get’ and ‘head’ configured as the options.
[
    {
        "AllowedHeaders": [
            "*"
        ],
        "AllowedMethods": [
            "GET",
            "HEAD"
        ],
        "AllowedOrigins": [
            "*"
        ],
        "ExposeHeaders": []
    }
]

---

Q: How would I go about modifying the OHIF Viewer so that the routing redirects to the viewer as the main page? How can I further modify it to include the studies list within the viewer page?


A: in getLayoutTemplateModule of your extension you can define the layout you want to use. In our 
default layout we provide a layout that has header, left and right side panels and a main content area (viewport grid). 

You should also look at the Mode.tsx file to see how routing is done.

--- 

Q: Getting below below-mentioned error while executing yarn run build
@ohif/app: Segmentation fault (core dumped)
error Command failed with exit code 139.
info Visit https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/run for documentation about this command.
@ohif/app: error Command failed with exit code 139.

A: Try a clean build of OHIF from the OHIF/Viewers project

yarn install
yarn build
Still fails
Try to build using Node 18.16

---

Q: I am working with the Custom Overlay Function in the Config file. I’m displaying slice location for Axial images and calculating a slice location from the slice number, image position patient and pixel spacing for Sagittal and Coronal images. When I use the crosshair tool and apply a rotation, my slice location data is no longer accurate. How can I detect that rotation has been applied in the Custom Overlay Function so I can prevent the slice location data from displaying?

A: Look at viewport.getCamera().viewPlaneNormal   If this has a +/- 1 in the x,y,z then it will be axial/sag/cor views

---

Q: The segmentation part is not working on the Orthanc-OHIF Viewer plugin

A: Releasing a new version of OHIF shortly, with lots of fixes in segmentation.  Hopefully, that will resolve the issues.







