# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2024-07-13

## Q & A

Attendees: 14

Discussed:


🖥️ **After opening a scan in ohif, if I switch tabs and come back to scan, the viewport becomes blank.**

A: Can you demonstrate or share more details? Will show a video. Try a different browser - chrome or a related browser. The behaviour in that it reappears after going back to the page and scrolling implies it probably is a browser issue.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75636612/prevent-google-chrome-unloading-or-discarding-tabs 

---

📅 **How can we make the date format unique across the work list, panel browser and overlay? As per i18n, currently we have format date function, but it always falls back to default configuration value. Even from setting if I change language to fr or ja-JP it remains the same.**

A: The format is supposed to be set in the i18n Common module, value LocalDateFormat, but looking at the code it doesn't seem to actually be reading that correctly. formatDICOMDate probably needs to be fixed to take the format conversion parameter from that value.

---

🩺 **Which version of OHIF to use for lesion tracking against multiple time points? Following up patients with multiple tumours at multiple studies**

A: The lesion tracker was the v1 version, and was moved into v2 as an extension, and now has been moved into v3 as the longitudinal mode. In the docs there are videos showing how tracked measurements work, what the report is and the export. See "Measurement Tracking"

There are issues with displaying/saving/loading studies for multiple studies.

Also see the hanging protocols for matching prior studies so you bring up a current and prior study with an appropriate matching context.

https://docs.ohif.org/user-guide/viewer/measurement-tracking
https://docs.ohif.org/platform/extensions/modules/hpModule
https://ohif.org/get-support

---

🖼️ **If I need to scale down an image in vtk code, what is the best way to pass param, i.e, we encountered an issue of large scale CR image not rendering on Android but works fine on IOS. SO scale down code should only apply to Android & I need to access that in VTK code.**

A: Most likely you need to set it on the image mapper and create a PR for vtk to get it from there

https://examples.itk.org/src/filtering/imagegrid/resampleanimage/documentation

---

🔍 **Any progress on OHIF issue raised, where US image shows orientation marker which is wrong? #4210**

A: We should probably make it clear that the provider has defaulted the cosines and detect that and later just skip the orientation markers

---

📥 **Is the event CORNERSTONE_IMAGE_LOADED a certain way to determine that an image has been loaded? In some cases where a dicom with large size (eg) when loaded, emits this event but if checked in the network tab the data is still being downloaded. What can be a good way to know for sure that a dicom has been downloaded?**

A: There is series loading bar being added in the next week or two in master
See the OHIF pull requests: study prefetcher
Seems like the multiframe use case isn't quite working correctly.

Can you share your anonymized data for this?

---

🔒 **Any update on the securing of orthanc's GUI with the newest version of Keycloak?**

A: Yes, almost halfway there - you can track the branch fix/auth - probably will be working next week. Previously used ngingx and used OHIF for authenticate against keycloak, now is using OAuth2Proxy to handle the authentication so that it is simpler with different providers.

https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy

---

🔲 **Unable to add dynamic coordinates to create a rectangle I have tried the way you mentioned last week in one of the commits. Will be happy if you allow me to show the issue.**

A: you should create your own annotations and not use the example annotation for this purpose 

---

❓ **SR and PR modalities are currently not visible in OHIF v3.8 when using DICOM JSON data source. We get the following errors: SR Modality: OHIF only supports TID1500 Imaging Measurement Report Structured Reports. The SR you're trying to view is not supported. SR Modality: Unsupported Display Set. PR: Display Set has missing position information. PR: Display Set is not a constructible 3d volume. The OHIF Docs(1) say that we have to enable the cornerstone SR extension to view SR images. After installing that, the errors still persist. What is the recommended way to get the SR, PR and SEG modalities to be visible correctly using the DICOM JSON data source?**

A: We don't have support for PR, coming in a couple of months
For SR, try loading in the desktop view using the direct local display first - if that is failing, then please create an issue. If it isn't working with DICOM JSON, then please create an issue as well, but specify it is DICOM JSON related.

---

🔍 **I want to get the instance hash or patient hash, basically I want to add a label using orthanc api so for that I am unable to get the hash.**

A: You can ask the question here I guess
https://discourse.orthanc-server.org/t/welcome-to-our-community/7

Having the Study/Series/InstanceUIDs, how can i get the hash
