# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2025-10-28

## Q & A

attendees: 9

### One-line summaries

- Issues rendering on mobile
- Issue rendering incorrect rgba response
- Incorrect rendering of DWI
- Unable to load after save in local mode
- Unable to display multiple segments

---

** Q: Webgl textures support in Mobiles is If norm16, norm16Linear, floatLinear is ‘No’. Is there any temporary fix/settings to work? **

- Some mobile devices are missing 16 bit support, suggest trying CPU rendering for now
- upcoming fixes will improve CPU rendering for mobile devices as well as better UI

---

** Q:if the images transfer syntax is opening always: 1.2.840.10008.1.2.4.90 (JPEG2000Lossless) , if it is : 1.2.840.10008.1.2.1 (Explicit VR Little Endian) getting blank and throwing the above errors in wadors. But its working in wadouri **

- It is incorrect to return an RGBA uncompressed data when RGB is expected. The right way to handle
  this is to fix it in Orthanc, but it would also be acceptable in the PR provided to check if the
  sample length was 3 to allow for a buffer 4/3 of the expected length

---

** Q: DWI MRI images not displaying properly in OHIF Viewer while working fine in other DICOM viewer **

- Looks like it is an issue with the 4d changes
- Going to submit a bug report for this with anonymized data

---

** Q:https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/5529 Missing Segment after visiting MPR mode. Sometimes.. See multiple segments, sometimes, not.. **

- Issue is using the wrong data loader, will create an issue
- Issue will probably not be looked at for some length of time

---

** Q: https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/issues/5453 Any hint where I can take a look to fix it? Support overlapping segment at volumetric viewport? **

- There is an open PR right now addressing overlapping segments in the volumetric viewport.

---
