# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2022-12-22

---

## Q & A

Q: I was wondering if it's possible to add libraries that we want to use in our extension folder because for now it's not working and it tries to import only from the OHIF dependencies. The solution I found was to add manually this line into the webpack.base and now it sees the libraries I added.

A: The solution is to release a version of your extension with the correct dependencies, and then add the released version to your OHIF version. That will get teh right dependencies, then you yarn link the local source code. It does require having all the libraries locally.

---

Q: An issue where we get black slices in acquisition plane for volume viewport
getSliceRange relies on getVolumeActorCorners, but getVolumeActorCorners doesn’t return the actual 3d corners, it returns a set of values which are min/max x,y,z coordinates, and not the actual bounds.

A: getSliceBounds can get the actual image corners using imageData.imageToWorld by using the width/height/depth
Using slicer - coordinates are RAS not LPS, so negate first two coordinates to switch between systems

---

Mobile use case - if I scale down (downsample) 4x, on each slice that the user sees we replace to full resolution

Is it possible to use WebGL mipmap level textures to decrease the GPU memory? So the CPU memory will keep the original resolution (2048 x 2048). However, when the texture is loaded into the GPU
is it possible to set the mipmap level setting so the effective memory use is (1024 x 1024)?
