# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-01-05

---

## Q & A

Q: Conflicts after cs-legacy -> cs3d. What is the deal with pluginImoprt.js? Is it automatically created?

A: We changed to typescript so anything jsx should have changed to tsx. Also pluginImport.js should not be touched. You should run yarn run dev for the pluginImport.js

pluginConfig can be auto generated using the ohif-cli but if you have already created the extension and modes you should update it manually OHIF Command Line Interface

—--------

Q: Tried to install new OHIF fresh (not merging), yarn install builds fresh packages failed.

A: This is a node version problem, one solution is to use version manager like https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm

—--------

Q: Directory in server error regarding cross origin isolation

A: You should set headers. For nginX it would be similar to our config here .docker/Viewer-v3.x/default.conf.template
—--------

Q: Experimenting with Segmentation, text box label for each segment. How to do that.

A: You can create a tool that has toolData as an array of {center, text} and then in the render loop you can orchestrate which direction they appear so that they don’t collide with each other. Also segment center should be calculated manually.

—-------

Q: Instead of SharedArrayBuffer use ArrayBuffer for the volume loader

A: A branch would help debugging

—---------

Q: The viewport layout is preserved when HP changes, as opposed to creating a new one. If there are two different stages

A: This is interesting and apparently radiologists prefer it as well. Let’s meet and discuss it.
