# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-01-12

---

## Q & A

Q: A feature to generate PDF reports. A custom PDF report?

A:
CS3D supports DICOM PDF. Create a display set from DICOM PDF. Look at dicom-pdf extension in OHIF as an example.

DICOM PDF modality can be PDF, SR, DOC

Hanging protocols originally does not support mounting the PDF, you might need to change that

—-------------------

Q: Crosshairs sync (refactored), how to give back to the community.

A: sync in world coordinates (the centers); disregard camera; for rotation: perhaps use the handles to calc rotation and sync with other viewport

—------------------

Q: Tailwind does not work in custom extensions
Also how to include a CSS framework in extension development. How to use Sass CSS. There is something strange in the build.

A: there might be a PR that fixes/helps the problem?
Ordering matters for webpack - perhaps have the sass-loader last?
The suggestion is to stick with tailwinds.
Maybe OHIF cli should insert a path to custom extension into the tailwind.config.js file (someone tried and this works)

—-------------------

Q: Hanging protocol module: is there a way to filter/organize/rearrange images individually inside a series.

A: related to PR#3058
Adapt what is in 3058 and create new display sets with the custom ordering/filtering; leave the unfiltered display sets

—---------------------

Q: How to change the color of segmentation in OHIF v2. Is there any global config to change color & segment_label used by HighDICOM, how to use/render it in the SEG panel in OHIF v3

A: color is encoded in DICOM SEG metadata (i.e. in tags); near future can be changed in UI via a colour picker

—---------

Q: How to load a SEG automatically in OHIF v3

A: expected behaviour is it will not work; try editing the HP to match the SEG (UID) in the series matching rule; criteria modality=SEG; custom attributes have to be registered

—-----------

Q: Load a lossy series, and then replace it with a lossless file

A: possible with htj2k progressive rendering;
Currently not possible with JPEG lossless. Caching in CS3D does not support bypassing if image is cached - alternatively perhaps need another loader to fetch higher res image and replace cached image;

Another option is to change the imageid in the display set (e.g. id-lossless)

Enhance loader to be a progressive/streaming loader; single request; after a certain size loaded, automatically deliver lossless at a later time (after 100k). This might be better because there is an overhead for each request and this option is a single request (per image).
