# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2023-01-19

---

## Q & A

Q: Get the image from the viewport. What is the best format for the AI for segmentation?

A: OHIF has support for DICOM seg; so if AI outputs that, then it should just load in OHIF. There are tools like dcmqi, High DICOM to help conversion/creation

https://highdicom.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Another option is the NIfTI format waiting; waiting on an open source project and then OHIF will have support for NIfTI. Some edge cases might not be solved (e.g. two studies with same study instance UID might not be merged)

Get image from viewport: in extension: fetch CornerstoneViewportService from ServicesManager that has getCornerStoneViewport (ViewportGridService has index to pass to method). Viewport has getImageData which has a scalarData property.

—-------------

Q: Crosshair center doesn’t move the camera. Camera changes center but the center move doesn’t change the camera.

A: Change focalPoint and position of camera calculated from previous values (similar to \_applyDeltaShiftToViewportCamera).

When camera moves crosshair (tool) center moves. The question is vice versa does not happen.

Maybe CrosshairsTools.\_jump might work?

Rotation angle can be calculated from rotationPoints relative to base/standard/axis-aligned axes (i.e. angle between two vectors). Go to other viewports and rotate those???

—------------

Discussion: dcmjs breaking changes

We are moving adapters from dcmjs to cs3d monorepo for SR and SEG
So there will be a breaking change for dcmjs
Some discussion for any other breaking changes? While we are doing this
Change the single item accessor?
Rather than same .patientName[0] we say .patientName
Currently based on the Proxy which is slower (a little bit)
Based on the value multiplicity
What if the VM is wrong? It says 1 but it is 2
Then we add the accessor regardless, because then you can still access it the 0 version, and you can access other ones
Other breaking changes we might want to explore?
Maybe the naming convention?
But it is the same exact naming in the DICOM standard

—-----------

Q: Touch events inheritance convention

A: For PR in (https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D-beta/pull/247) Having interactionEventType is more consistent and we can have a one listener.
—-----------

Q: Dynamic image/volume sizing (related to progressive loading + cache). Starting from a smaller volume. For instance one stack viewport volume, the memory on device only allow for 400 devices. One thing we can do is sample axially, when we build the volume, we can just sample nth to create a volume and place it in the devices memory space. On the other hand In progressive loading, we can load downsampled images, we start with 128x128, when the user wants the higher resolution (either click or continue on progressive loading milestone), then we just update the image in vtk (it is different size, 512x512), but from viewport stand point, since vtk is stretching

A: probably we should add a flag to cache to says force replace the image in the cache with the new one.
