# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2022-09-29

## Custom Tool

Willy asked how to display AI/automated generation of generated results - rest API response with key points.
Like JSON file generated that has coordinates of key points
Discussed arrow tool, or else custom probe tool for that use case

## DICOM Tree

Bill discussed a proposal to the DICOM working group for faster JSON format using DICOM Tree, 1000 images 600ms at parse time, for 4700 images 1 seconds.
Static dicom web now supports uploading one study, but not automatically regenerating the index. It is WIP prob next week and also SCP for transmitting to static dicom web.

## OHIF V3 and Segmentation

Alireza - working on segmentation, demoing it
Can select different segmentation objects as well as specific segmentations in it
Automatically highlight new specific segmentation when selected, then fade away so more visible
Panels are now all in one tab and they can be switched between

## PR for Thumbnails

Celian has a PR to have a minimum size on the thumbnails when there are multiple studies in the thumbnail tray.
Needs to use OHIF scrollbar style

-Dan suggested that having two scrollbars wasn’t a good idea

Double Scrollbar not ideal https://deploy-preview-2878--ohif-platform-viewer.netlify.app/viewer?StudyInstanceUIDs=1.3.6.1.4.1.14519.5.2.1.7009.2403.334240657131972136850343327463

## Fuzzy image bug

There is a bug which makes the image fuzzy when loaded, the dicom is j2k compressed, and the image is not displayed correctly.

Suggested to try git bisect between the two versions to figure out when the image became fuzzy
dcm2dcm <inputFile> <outputFile> to generate LEI then drag and drop to view
Using dcm2dcm to LEI or JPLL results in a valid image
Using dcm2dcm twice to LEI and then to J2K results in a good image.
You need the toolkit, and Java, then run dcm2dcm -jls fuzzy.dcm notFuzzy.dcm

## PolyLine display

Alireza will look into the polyline display, and see if it can be added

## FreeHand ROI in Legacy

Discussed the freehand ROI in legacy, and how it is different than the Cornerstone3D
in which in legacy statistics where calculated on the fly, and in Cornerstone3D it is not.

You can certainly port the logic from legacy to Cornerstone3D, but it is not priority at our end.
