# OHIF Office Hours Notes 2022-09-22

## Attendees:
Erik, Bill, Doug, Salim, Kunjesh, Shiva
Wen,Alireza

## Disable/re-enable
Chris brought up that if you disable and then enable OHIF elemetns, they don't work as expected afterwards - not clear how/what they are supposed to do.

## Funding for 4D datasets
Not a huge amount, but very targetted for pre-clinical workflows.
4d pet, tracer uptake over time
Some experimental stuff to write to disk to manage memory
Maybe use a service worker for caching?

## Firefox - offscreen canvas
- not being used right now
- copy from one canvas to another very slow in Firefox
- could switch to offscreen canvas API

## CINE Clip playback in OHIF
Doug demonstrated auto-play in OHIF v2
Bill demonstrated auto-play in OHIF v3, confirmed that multiframe works with cine now
https://github.com/OHIF/Viewers/pull/2883 for v2 (Doug)

## Moving v3-stable to master
Waiting for segmentation  

## Reference lines
v2: https://github.com/mieweb/OHIF-Viewers/pull/9 shows reference lines, with a video

Wen is starting reference lines in CS3D, showed a demo of display
Need a listener/synchronizer that listens for viewport, and then update the line on the other images

## Server side rendering
Initial display is somewhat slow
Chris - replied:
* Cornerstone is designed for client side rendering
* Server side is useful for very large server side rendering
* Client rendering gives better interaction capabilities

## Annotations in Volume
Mostly annotations work in volumes
Crosshairs are only enabled on volume because the crosshair deals with rotation/thickness for MIP etc, which doesn't exist on stack.

## Segmentation
In v3, segmentation works like an SR
Still private WIP, to be delivered to a client first before releasing to OSS, should be about 1-2 weeks before release.
Agreed verbally to OSS it, but need formal document

## Is there any interest in recording?
Yes, there is some interest.  They are public, so should be ok to publish.  Will talk internally about that.